plain tale from the hill. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
lespeth. 
three and an extra. 
throw away. 
miss youghal s sais. 
yoke with an unbeliever. 
false dawn. 
the rescue of pluffles. 
cupid s arrow. 
his chance in life. 
watch of the night. 
the other man. 
consequence. 
the conversion of aurelian mcgoggin. 
a germ destroyer. 
kidnap. 
the arrest of lieutenant golightly. 
the house of suddhoo. 
his wed wife. 
the break link handicap. 
beyond the pale. 
in error. 
a bank fraud. 
tod s amendment. 
in the pride of his youth. 
pig. 
the rout of the white hussar. 
the bronckhorst divorce case. 
venus annodomini. 
the bisara of poor. 
the gate of a hundred sorrow. 
the story of muhammid din. 
on the strength of a liken. 
wressley of the foreign office. 
by word of mouth. 
to be hold for reference. 
plain tale from the hill. 
lispeth. 
look you have cast out love. what god be these you bid me please. the three in one the one in three. not so. to my own god i go. it may be they shall give me great ease than your cold christ and tangle trinity. 
the convert. 
she be the daughter of sonoo a hill man and jadeh his wife. one year their maize fail and two bear spend the night in their only poppy field just above the sutlej valley on the kotgarth side. so next season they turn christian and bring their baby to the mission to be baptize. the kotgarth chaplain christen her elizabeth and lispeth be the hill or pahari pronunciation. 
late cholera come into the kotgarth valley and carry off sonoo and jadeh and lispeth become half servant half companion to the wife of the then chaplain of kotgarth. this be after the reign of the moravian missionary but before kotgarth have quite forget her title of mistress of the northern hill. 
whether christianity improve lispeth or whether the god of her own people would have do a much for her under any circumstance i do not know. but she grow very lovely. when a hill girl grow lovely she be worth travel fifty mile over bad grind to look upon. lispeth have a greek face one of those face people paint so often and see so seldom. she be of a pale ivory color and for her race extremely tall. also she possess eye that be wonderful. and have she not be dress in the abominable print cloth affect by mission you would meet her on the hill side unexpectedly have think her the original diana of the roman go out to slay. 
lispeth take to christianity readily and do not abandon it when she reach womanhood a do some hill girl. her own people hat her because she have they say become a memsahib and wash herself daily. and the chaplain s wife do not know what to do with her. somehow one cannot ask a stately goddess five foot ten in her shoe to clean plate and dish. so she play with the chaplain s child and take class in the sunday school and read all the book in the house and grow more and more beautiful like the princess in fairy tale. the chaplain s wife say that the girl ought to take service in simla a a nurse or something genteel. but lispeth do not want to take service. she be very happy where she be. 
when traveller there be not many in those year come to kotgarth lispeth use to lock herself into her own room for fear they might take her away to simla or somewhere out into the unknown world. 
one day a few month after she be seventeen year old lispeth go out for a walk. she do not walk in the manner of english lady a mile and a half out and a ride back again. she cover between twenty and thirty mile in her little constitutional all about and about between kotgarth and narkunda. this time she come back at full dusk step down the breakneck descent into kotgarth with something heavy in her arm. the chaplain s wife be doze in the draw room when lispeth come in breathe hard and very exhaust with her burden. lispeth put it down on the sofa and say simply. 
this be my husband. i find him on the bagi road. he ha hurt himself. we will nurse him and when he be well your husband shall marry him to me. 
this be the first mention lispeth have ever make of her matrimonial view and the chaplain s wife shriek with horror. however the man on the sofa need attention first. he be a young englishman and his head have be cut to the bone by something jag. lispeth say she have find him down the khud so she have bring him in. he be breathe queerly and be unconscious. 
he be put to bed and tend by the chaplain who know something of medicine. and lispeth wait outside the door in case she could be useful. she explain to the chaplain that this be the man she mean to marry. and the chaplain and his wife lecture her severely on the impropriety of her conduct. lispeth listen quietly and repeat her first proposition. it take a great deal of christianity to wipe out uncivilized eastern instinct such a fall in love at first sight. lispeth have find the man she worship do not see why she should keep silent a to her choice. she have no intention of be send away either. she be go to nurse that englishman until he be well enough to marry her. this be her little programme. 
after a fortnight of slight fever and inflammation the englishman recover coherence and thank the chaplain and his wife and lispeth especially lispeth for their kindness. he be a traveller in the east he say they never talk about globe trotter in those day when the p. & o. fleet be young and small and have come from dehra dun to hunt for plant and butterfly among the simla hill. no one at simla therefore know anything about him. he fancy he must have fall over the cliff while stalk a fern on a rotten tree trunk and that his cooly must have steal his baggage and flee. he think he would go back to simla when he be a little strong. he desire no more mountaineer. 
he make small haste to go away and recover his strength slowly. lispeth object to be advise either by the chaplain or his wife. so the latter speak to the englishman and tell him how matter stand in lispeth s heart. he laugh a good deal and say it be very pretty and romantic a perfect idyl of the himalaya. but a he be engage to a girl at home he fancy that nothing would happen. certainly he would behave with discretion. he do that. still he find it very pleasant to talk to lispeth and walk with lispeth and say nice thing to her and call her pet name while he be get strong enough to go away. it mean nothing at all to him and everything in the world to lispeth. she be very happy while the fortnight last because she have find a man to love. 
be a savage by birth she take no trouble to hide her feeling and the englishman be amuse. when he go away lispeth walk with him up the hill a far a narkunda very trouble and very miserable. the chaplain s wife be a good christian and dislike anything in the shape of fuss or scandal lispeth be beyond her management entirely have tell the englishman to tell lispeth that he be come back to marry her. she be but a child you know and i fear at heart a heathen say the chaplain s wife. so all the twelve mile up the hill the englishman with his arm around lispeth s waist be assure the girl that he would come back and marry her. and lispeth make him promise over and over again. she weep on the narkunda ridge till he have pass out of sight along the muttiani path. 
then she dry her tear and go in to kotgarth again and say to the chaplain s wife. he will come back and marry me. he ha go to his own people to tell them so. and the chaplain s wife soothe lispeth and say. he will come back. at the end of two month lispeth grow impatient and be tell that the englishman have go over the sea to england. she know where england be because she have read little geography primer. but of course she have no conception of the nature of the sea be a hill girl. there be an old puzzle map of the world in the house. lispeth have play with it when she be a child. she unearth it again and put it together of evening and cry to herself and try to imagine where her englishman be. a she have no idea of distance or steamboat her notion be somewhat erroneous. it would not have make the least difference have she be perfectly correct. for the englishman have no intention of come back to marry a hill girl. he forget all about her by the time he be butterfly hunt in assam. he write a book on the east afterwards. lispeth s name do not appear. 
at the end of three month lispeth make daily pilgrimage to narkunda to see if her englishman be come along the road. it give her comfort and the chaplain s wife find her happy think that she be get over her barbarous and most indelicate folly. a little late the walk cease to help lispeth and her temper grow very bad. the chaplain s wife think this a profitable time to let her know the real state of affair that the englishman have only promise his love to keep her quiet that he have never mean anything and that it be wrong and improper of lispeth to think of marriage with an englishman who be of a superior clay besides be promise in marriage to a girl of his own people. lispeth say that all this be clearly impossible because he have say he love her and the chaplain s wife have with her own lip assert that the englishman be come back. 
how can what he and you say be untrue. ask lispeth. 
we say it a an excuse to keep you quiet child say the chaplain s wife. 
then you have lie to me say lispeth you and he. 
the chaplain s wife bow her head and say nothing. lispeth be silent too for a little time. then she go out down the valley and return in the dress of a hill girl infamously dirty but without the nose and ear ring. she have her hair braid into the long pig tail help out with black thread that hill woman wear. 
i be go back to my own people say she. you have kill lispeth. there be only leave old jadeh s daughter the daughter of a pahari and the servant of tarka devi. you be all liar you english. 
by the time that the chaplain s wife have recover from the shock of the announcement that lispeth have verted to her mother s god the girl have go. and she never come back. 
she take to her own unclean people savagely a if to make up the arrears of the life she have step out of. and in a little time she marry a wood cutter who beat her after the manner of paharis and her beauty fade soon. 
there be no law whereby you can account for the vagary of the heathen say the chaplain s wife and i believe that lispeth be always at heart an infidel. see she have be take into the church of england at the mature age of five week this statement doe not do credit to the chaplain s wife. 
lispeth be a very old woman when she die. she always have a perfect command of english and when she be sufficiently drink could sometimes be induce to tell the story of her first love affair. 
it be hard then to realize that the blear wrinkle creature so like a wisp of char rag could ever have be lispeth of the kotgarth mission. 
three and an extra. 
when halter and heel rope be slip do not give chase with stick but with gram. 
punjabi proverb. 
after marriage arrive a reaction sometimes a big sometimes a little one. but it come sooner or late and must be tide over by both party if they desire the rest of their life to go with the current. 
in the case of the cusack bremmils this reaction do not set in till the third year after the wed. bremmil be hard to hold at the best of time. but he be a beautiful husband until the baby die and mr. bremmil wear black and grow thin and mourn a if the bottom of the universe have fall out. perhaps bremmil ought to have comfort her. he try to do so i think. but the more he comfort the more mr. bremmil grieve and consequently the more uncomfortable bremmil grow. the fact be that they both need a tonic. and they get it. mr. bremmil can afford to laugh now but it be no laugh matter to her at the time. 
you see mr. hauksbee appear on the horizon. and where she exist be fair chance of trouble. at simla her bye name be the stormy petrel. she have win that title five time to my own certain knowledge. she be a little brown thin almost skinny woman with big roll violet blue eye and the sweet manner in the world. you have only to mention her name at afternoon tea for every woman in the room to rise up and call her well not bless. she be clever witty brilliant and sparkle beyond most of her kind. but possess of many devil of malice and mischievousness. she could be nice though even to her own sex. but that be another story. 
bremmil go off at score after the baby s death and the general discomfort that follow and mr. hauksbee annex him. she take no pleasure in hide her captive. she annex him publicly and saw that the public saw it. he ride with her and walk with her and talk with her and picnic with her and tiffined at peliti s with her till people put up their eyebrow and say. shock. mr. bremmil stay at home turn over the dead baby s frock and cry into the empty cradle. she do not care to do anything else. but some eight dear affectionate lady friend explain the situation at length to her in case she should miss the cream of it. mr. bremmil listen quietly and thank them for their good office. she be not a clever a mr. hauksbee but she be no fool. she keep her own counsel and do not speak to bremmil of what she have hear. this be worth remember. speak to or cry over a husband never do any good yet. 
when bremmil be at home which be not often he be more affectionate than usual. and that show his hand. the affection be force partly to soothe his own conscience and partly to soothe mr. bremmil. it fail in both regard. 
then the a. d. c. in wait be command by their excellency lord and lady lytton to invite mr. and mr. cusack bremmil to peterhoff on july th at. p. m. dance in the bottom leave hand corner. 
i can t go say mr. bremmil it be too soon after poor little florrie. but it need not stop you tom. 
she mean what she say then and bremmil say that he would go just to put in an appearance. here he speak the thing which be not. and mr. bremmil know it. she guess a woman s guess be much more accurate than a man s certainty that he have mean to go from the first and with mr. hauksbee. she sit down to think and the outcome of her thought be that the memory of a dead child be worth considerably le than the affection of a live husband. she make her plan and stake her all upon it. in that hour she discover that she know tom bremmil thoroughly and this knowledge she act on. 
tom say she i shall be din out at the longmores on the even of the th. you d good dine at the club. 
this save bremmil from make an excuse to get away and dine with mr. hauksbee so he be grateful and felt small and mean at the same time which be wholesome. bremmil leave the house at five for a ride. about half past five in the even a large leather cover basket come in from phelps for mr. bremmil. she be a woman who know how to dress. and she have not spend a week on design that dress and have it gore and hem and herring bone and tuck and ruck. or whatever the term be. for nothing. it be a gorgeous dress slight mourn. i can t describe it but it be what the queen call a creation a thing that hit you straight between the eye and make you gasp. she have not much heart for what she be go to do. but a she glance at the long mirror she have the satisfaction of know that she have never look so well in her life. she be a large blonde and when she choose carry herself superbly. 
after the dinner at the longmores she go on to the dance a little late and encounter bremmil with mr. hauksbee on his arm. that make her flush and a the men crowd round her for dance she look magnificent. she fill up all her dance except three and those she leave blank. mr. hauksbee catch her eye once. and she know it be war real war between them. she start handicap in the struggle for she have order bremmil about just the least little bite in the world too much. and he be begin to resent it. moreover he have never see his wife look so lovely. he star at her from doorway and glare at her from passage a she go about with her partner. and the more he star the more take be he. he could scarcely believe that this be the woman with the red eye and the black stuff gown who use to weep over the egg at breakfast. 
mr. hauksbee do her best to hold him in play but after two dance he cross over to his wife and ask for a dance. 
i m afraid you ve come too late mister bremmil she say with her eye twinkle. 
then he beg her to give him a dance and a a great favor she allow him the fifth waltz. luckily stand vacant on his programme. they dance it together and there be a little flutter round the room. bremmil have a sort of notion that his wife could dance but he never know she dance so divinely. at the end of that waltz he ask for another a a favor not a a right. and mr. bremmil say. show me your programme dear. he show it a a naughty little schoolboy hand up contraband sweet to a master. there be a fair sprinkle of h on it besides h at supper. mr. bremmil say nothing but she smile contemptuously run her pencil through and two h s and return the card with her own name write above a pet name that only she and her husband use. then she shake her finger at him and say laugh. oh you silly silly boy. 
mr. hauksbee hear that and she own a much felt that she have the bad of it. bremmil accept and gratefully. they dance and sit out in one of the little tent. what bremmil say and what mr. bremmil say be no concern of any one s. 
when the band strike up the roast beef of old england the two go out into the verandah and bremmil begin look for his wife s dandy. this be before rickshaw day. while she go into the cloak room. mr. hauksbee come up and say. you take me in to supper i think mr. bremmil. bremmil turn red and look foolish. ah h m. i m go home with my wife mr. hauksbee. i think there ha be a little mistake. be a man he speak a though mr. hauksbee be entirely responsible. 
mr. bremmil come out of the cloak room in a swansdown cloak with a white cloud round her head. she look radiant. and she have a right to. 
the couple go off in the darkness together bremmil rid very close to the dandy. 
then say mr. hauksbee to me she look a trifle fade and jade in the lamplight. take my word for it the silly woman can manage a clever man. but it need a very clever woman to manage a fool. 
then we go in to supper. 
throw away. 
and some be sulky while some will plunge [so ho. steady. stand still you. ] some you must gentle and some you must lunge. [there. there. who want to kill you. ] some there be loss in every trade will break their heart ere bitted and make will fight like fiend a the rope cut hard and die dumb mad in the break yard. 
toolungala stockyard chorus. 
to rear a boy under what parent call the shelter life system be if the boy must go into the world and fend for himself not wise. unless he be one in a thousand he ha certainly to pas through many unnecessary trouble. and may possibly come to extreme grief simply from ignorance of the proper proportion of thing. 
let a puppy eat the soap in the bath room or chew a newly black boot. he chew and chuckle until by and by he find out that black and old brown windsor make him very sick. so he argue that soap and boot be not wholesome. any old dog about the house will soon show him the unwisdom of bite big dog ear. be young he remember and go abroad at six month a well mannered little beast with a chasten appetite. if he have be keep away from boot and soap and big dog till he come to the trinity full grow and with develop teeth just consider how fearfully sick and thrash he would be. apply that motion to the shelter life and see how it work. it doe not sound pretty but it be the good of two evil. 
there be a boy once who have be bring up under the shelter life theory. and the theory kill him dead. he stay with his people all his day from the hour he be bear till the hour he go into sandhurst nearly at the top of the list. he be beautifully teach in all that win mark by a private tutor and carry the extra weight of never have give his parent an hour s anxiety in his life. what he learn at sandhurst beyond the regular routine be of no great consequence. he look about him and he find soap and black so to speak very good. he eat a little and come out of sandhurst not so high a he go in. them there be an interval and a scene with his people who expect much from him. next a year of live unspotted from the world in a third rate depot battalion where all the junior be child and all the senior old woman. and lastly he come out to india where he be cut off from the support of his parent and have no one to fall back on in time of trouble except himself. 
now india be a place beyond all others where one must not take thing too seriously the midday sun always except. too much work and too much energy kill a man just a effectively a too much assort vice or too much drink. flirtation doe not matter because every one be be transfer and either you or she leave the station and never return. good work doe not matter because a man be judge by his bad output and another man take all the credit of his best a a rule. bad work doe not matter because other men do bad and incompetent hang on long in india than anywhere else. amusement do not matter because you must repeat them a soon a you have accomplish them once and most amusement only mean try to win another person s money. sickness doe not matter because it s all in the day s work and if you die another man take over your place and your office in the eight hour between death and burial. nothing matter except home furlough and act allowance and these only because they be scarce. this be a slack kutcha country where all men work with imperfect instrument. and the wise thing be to take no one and nothing in earnest but to escape a soon a ever you can to some place where amusement be amusement and a reputation worth the have. 
but this boy the tale be a old a the hill come out and take all thing seriously. he be pretty and be pet. he take the petting seriously and fret over woman not worth saddle a pony to call upon. he find his new free life in india very good. it doe look attractive in the begin from a subaltern s point of view all pony partner dance and so on. he taste it a the puppy taste the soap. only he come late to the eat with a grow set of teeth. he have no sense of balance just like the puppy and could not understand why he be not treat with the consideration he receive under his father s roof. this hurt his feeling. 
he quarrel with other boy and be sensitive to the marrow remember these quarrel and they excite him. he find whist and gymkhana and thing of that kind. mean to amuse one after office. good. but he take them seriously too just a he take the head that follow after drink. he lose his money over whist and gymkhana because they be new to him. 
he take his loss seriously and waste a much energy and interest over a two goldmohur race for maiden ekka pony with their mane hog a if it have be the derby. one half of this come from inexperience much a the puppy squabble with the corner of the hearth rug and the other half from the dizziness breed by stumble out of his quiet life into the glare and excitement of a lively one. no one tell him about the soap and the black because an average man take it for grant that an average man be ordinarily careful in regard to them. it be pitiful to watch the boy knock himself to piece a an over handle colt fall down and cut himself when he get away from the groom. 
this unbridle license in amusement not worth the trouble of break line for much le riot over endure for six month all through one cold weather and then we think that the heat and the knowledge of have lose his money and health and lam his horse would sober the boy down and he would stand steady. in ninety nine case out of a hundred this would have happen. you can see the principle work in any indian station. but this particular case fell through because the boy be sensitive and take thing seriously a i may have say some seven time before. of course we couldn t tell how his excess strike him personally. they be nothing very heart break or above the average. he might be cripple for life financially and want a little nurse. still the memory of his performance would wither away in one hot weather and the shroff would help him to tide over the money trouble. but he must have take another view altogether and have believe himself ruin beyond redemption. his colonel talk to him severely when the cold weather end. that make him more wretched than ever. and it be only an ordinary colonel s wigging. 
what follow be a curious instance of the fashion in which we be all link together and make responsible for one another. the thing that kick the beam in the boy s mind be a remark that a woman make when he be talk to her. there be no use in repeat it for it be only a cruel little sentence rap out before think that make him flush to the root of his hair. he keep himself to himself for three day and then put in for two day leave to go shoot near a canal engineer s rest house about thirty mile out. he get his leave and that night at mess be noisy and more offensive than ever. he say that he be go to shoot big game and leave at half past ten o clock in an ekka. partridge which be the only thing a man could get near the rest house be not big game. so every one laugh. 
next morning one of the major come in from short leave and hear that the boy have go out to shoot big game. the major have take an interest in the boy and have more than once try to check him in the cold weather. the major put up his eyebrow when he hear of the expedition and go to the boy s room where he rummage. 
presently he come out and find me leave card on the mess. there be no one else in the ante room. 
he say. the boy ha go out shoot. doe a man shoot tetur with a revolver and a write case. 
i say. nonsense major. for i saw what be in his mind. 
he say. nonsense or nonsense i m go to the canal now at once. i don t feel easy. 
then he think for a minute and say. can you lie. 
you know best i answer. it s my profession. 
very well say the major. you must come out with me now at once in an ekka to the canal to shoot black buck. go and put on shikar kit quick and drive here with a gun. 
the major be a masterful man. and i know that he would not give order for nothing. so i obey and on return find the major pack up in an ekka gun case and food sling below all ready for a shoot trip. 
he dismiss the driver and drive himself. we jog along quietly while in the station. but a soon a we get to the dusty road across the plain he make that pony fly. a country breed can do nearly anything at a pinch. we cover the thirty mile in under three hour but the poor brute be nearly dead. 
once i say. what s the blaze hurry major. 
he say quietly. the boy ha be alone by himself for one two five fourteen hour now. i tell you i don t feel easy. 
this uneasiness spread itself to me and i help to beat the pony. 
when we come to the canal engineer s rest house the major call for the boy s servant. but there be no answer. then we go up to the house call for the boy by name. but there be no answer. 
oh he s out shoot say i. 
just then i saw through one of the window a little hurricane lamp burn. this be at four in the afternoon. we both stop dead in the verandah hold our breath to catch every sound. and we hear inside the room the brr brr brr of a multitude of fly. the major say nothing but he take off his helmet and we enter very softly. 
the boy be dead on the charpoy in the centre of the bare lime wash room. he have shoot his head nearly to piece with his revolver. the gun case be still strap so be the bed and on the table lay the boy s write case with photograph. he have go away to die like a poison rat. 
the major say to himself softly. poor boy. poor poor devil. then he turn away from the bed and say. i want your help in this business. 
know the boy be dead by his own hand i saw exactly what that help would be so i pass over to the table take a chair light a cheroot and begin to go through the write case. the major look over my shoulder and repeat to himself. we come too late. like a rat in a hole. poor poor devil. 
the boy must have spend half the night in write to his people and to his colonel and to a girl at home. and a soon a he have finish must have shoot himself for he have be dead a long time when we come in. 
i read all that he have write and pass over each sheet to the major a i finish it. 
we saw from his account how very seriously he have take everything. he write about disgrace which he be unable to bear indelible shame criminal folly waste life and so on. besides a lot of private thing to his father and mother too much too sacred to put into print. the letter to the girl at home be the most pitiful of all. and i choke a i read it. the major make no attempt to keep dry eye. i respect him for that. he read and rock himself to and fro and simply cry like a woman without care to hide it. the letter be so dreary and hopeless and touch. we forget all about the boy s folly and only think of the poor thing on the charpoy and the scrawl sheet in our hand. it be utterly impossible to let the letter go home. they would have break his father s heart and kill his mother after kill her belief in her son. 
at last the major dry his eye openly and say. nice sort of thing to spring on an english family. what shall we do. 
i say know what the major have bring me but for. the boy die of cholera. we be with him at the time. we can t commit ourselves to half measure. come along. 
then begin one of the most grimy comic scene i have ever take part in the concoction of a big write lie bolster with evidence to soothe the boy s people at home. i begin the rough draft of a letter the major throw in hint here and there while he gather up all the stuff that the boy have write and burn it in the fireplace. it be a hot still even when we begin and the lamp burn very badly. in due course i get the draft to my satisfaction set forth how the boy be the pattern of all virtue beloved by his regiment with every promise of a great career before him and so on. how we have help him through the sickness it be no time for little lie you will understand and how he have die without pain. i choke while i be put down these thing and think of the poor people who would read them. then i laugh at the grotesqueness of the affair and the laughter mix itself up with the choke and the major say that we both want drink. 
i be afraid to say how much whiskey we drink before the letter be finish. it have not the least effect on u. then we take off the boy s watch locket and ring. 
lastly the major say. we must send a lock of hair too. a woman value that. 
but there be reason why we could not find a lock fit to send. the boy be black haired and so be the major luckily. i cut off a piece of the major s hair above the temple with a knife and put it into the packet we be make. the laugh fit and the choke get hold of me again and i have to stop. the major be nearly a bad. and we both know that the bad part of the work be to come. 
we seal up the packet photograph locket seal ring letter and lock of hair with the boy s seal wax and the boy s seal. 
then the major say. for god s sake let s get outside away from the room and think. 
we go outside and walk on the bank of the canal for an hour eat and drink what we have with u until the moon rise. i know now exactly how a murderer feel. finally we force ourselves back to the room with the lamp and the other thing in it and begin to take up the next piece of work. i be not go to write about this. it be too horrible. we burn the bedstead and drop the ash into the canal. we take up the mat of the room and treat that in the same way. i go off to a village and borrow two big hoe i do not want the villager to help while the major arrange the other matter. it take u four hour hard work to make the grave. a we work we argue out whether it be right to say a much a we remember of the burial of the dead. we compromise thing by say the lord s prayer with a private unofficial prayer for the peace of the soul of the boy. then we fill in the grave and go into the verandah not the house to lie down to sleep. we be dead tire. 
when we wake the major say wearily. we can t go back till to morrow. we must give him a decent time to die in. he die early this morning remember. that seem more natural. so the major must have be lie awake all the time think. 
i say. then why didn t we bring the body back to the cantonment. 
the major think for a minute. because the people bolt when they hear of the cholera. and the ekka ha go. 
that be strictly true. we have forget all about the ekka pony and he have go home. 
so we be leave there alone all that stifle day in the canal rest house test and re test our story of the boy s death to see if it be weak at any point. a native turn up in the afternoon but we say that a sahib be dead of cholera and he run away. a the dusk gather the major tell me all his fear about the boy and awful story of suicide or nearly carry out suicide tale that make one s hair crisp. he say that he himself have once go into the same valley of the shadow a the boy when he be young and new to the country. so he understand how thing fight together in the boy s poor jumble head. he also say that youngster in their repentant moment consider their sin much more serious and ineffaceable than they really be. we talk together all through the even and rehearse the story of the death of the boy. a soon a the moon be up and the boy theoretically just bury we strike across country for the station. we walk from eight till six o clock in the morning. but though we be dead tire we do not forget to go to the boy s room and put away his revolver with the proper amount of cartridge in the pouch. also to set his write case on the table. we find the colonel and report the death feel more like murderer than ever. then we go to bed and sleep the clock round. for there be no more in u. 
the tale have credence a long a be necessary for every one forget about the boy before a fortnight be over. many people however find time to say that the major have behave scandalously in not bring in the body for a regimental funeral. the sad thing of all be a letter from the boy s mother to the major and me with big inky blister all over the sheet. she write the sweet possible thing about our great kindness and the obligation she would be under to u a long a she live. 
all thing consider she be under an obligation. but not exactly a she mean. 
miss youghal s sais. 
when man and woman be agree what can the kazi do. 
mahomedan proverb. 
some people say that there be no romance in india. those people be wrong. our life hold quite a much romance a be good for u. sometimes more. 
strickland be in the police and people do not understand him. so they say he be a doubtful sort of man and pass by on the other side. strickland have himself to thank for this. he hold the extraordinary theory that a policeman in india should try to know a much about the native a the native themselves. now in the whole of upper india there be only one man who can pas for hindu or mohammedan chamar or faquir a he plea. he be fear and respect by the native from the ghor kathri to the jamma musjid. and he be suppose to have the gift of invisibility and executive control over many devil. but what good ha this do him with the government. none in the world. he ha never get simla for his charge. and his name be almost unknown to englishman. 
strickland be foolish enough to take that man for his model. and follow out his absurd theory dabble in unsavory place no respectable man would think of explore all among the native riff raff. he educate himself in this peculiar way for seven year and people could not appreciate it. he be perpetually go fantee among the native which of course no man with any sense belief in. he be initiate into the sit bhai at allahabad once when he be on leave. he know the lizard song of the sansis and the halli hukk dance which be a religious can can of a startle kind. when a man know who dance the halli hukk and how and when and where he know something to be proud of. he ha go deep than the skin. but strickland be not proud though he have help once at jagadhri at the paint of the death bull which no englishman must even look upon. have master the thief patter of the changars. have take a eusufzai horse thief alone near attock. and have stand under the mimbar board of a border mosque and conduct service in the manner of a sunni mollah. 
his crown achievement be spend eleven day a a faquir in the garden of baba atal at amritsar and there pick up the thread of the great nasiban murder case. but people say justly enough. why on earth can t strickland sit in his office and write up his diary and recruit and keep quiet instead of show up the incapacity of his senior. so the nasiban murder case do him no good departmentally. but after his first feel of wrath he return to his outlandish custom of pry into native life. by the way when a man once acquire a taste for this particular amusement it abide with him all his day. it be the most fascinate thing in the world. love not except. where other men take ten day to the hill strickland take leave for what he call shikar put on the disguise that appeal to him at the time step down into the brown crowd and be swallow up for a while. he be a quiet dark young fellow spare black eye and when he be not think of something else a very interest companion. strickland on native progress a he have see it be worth hear. native hat strickland. but they be afraid of him. he know too much. 
when the youghals come into the station strickland very gravely a he do everything fell in love with miss youghal. and she after a while fell in love with him because she could not understand him. then strickland tell the parent. but mr. youghal say she be not go to throw her daughter into the bad pay department in the empire and old youghal say in so many word that he mistrust strickland s way and work and would thank him not to speak or write to his daughter any more. very well say strickland for he do not wish to make his lady love s life a burden. after one long talk with miss youghal he drop the business entirely. 
the youghals go up to simla in april. 
in july strickland secure three month leave on urgent private affair. he lock up his house though not a native in the providence would wittingly have touch estreekin sahib s gear for the world and go down to see a friend of his an old dyer at tarn taran. 
here all trace of him be lose until a sais meet me on the simla mall with this extraordinary note. 
dear old man. 
please give bearer a box of cheroot super no. i for preference. they be fresh at the club. i ll repay when i reappear. but at present i m out of society. 
yours. 
e. strickland. 
i order two box and hand them over to the sais with my love. that sais be strickland and he be in old youghal s employ attach to miss youghal s arab. the poor fellow be suffer for an english smoke and know that whatever happen i should hold my tongue till the business be over. 
late on mr. youghal who be wrap up in her servant begin talk at house where she call of her paragon among saises the man who be never too busy to get up in the morning and pick flower for the breakfast table and who black actually black the hoof of his horse like a london coachman. the turnout of miss youghal s arab be a wonder and a delight. strickland dulloo i mean find his reward in the pretty thing that miss youghal say to him when she go out rid. her parent be please to find she have forget all her foolishness for young strickland and say she be a good girl. 
strickland vow that the two month of his service be the most rigid mental discipline he ha ever go through. quite apart from the little fact that the wife of one of his fellow saises fell in love with him and then try to poison him with arsenic because he would have nothing to do with her he have to school himself into keep quiet when miss youghal go out rid with some man who try to flirt with her and he be force to trot behind carry the blanket and hear every word. also he have to keep his temper when he be slang in benmore porch by a policeman especially once when he be abuse by a naik he have himself recruit from isser jang village or bad still when a young subaltern call him a pig for not make way quickly enough. 
but the life have it compensation. he obtain great insight into the way and theft of saises enough he say to have summarily convict half the chamar population of the punjab if he have be on business. he become one of the lead player at knuckle bone which all jhampanis and many saises play while they be wait outside the government house or the gaiety theatre of night. he learn to smoke tobacco that be three fourth cowdung. and he hear the wisdom of the grizzle jemadar of the government house saises whose word be valuable. he saw many thing which amuse him. and he state on honor that no man can appreciate simla properly till he ha see it from the sais s point of view. he also say that if he choose to write all he saw his head would be break in several place. 
strickland s account of the agony he endure on wet night hear the music and see the light in benmore with his toe tingle for a waltz and his head in a horse blanket be rather amuse. one of these day strickland be go to write a little book on his experience. that book will be worth buy. and even more worth suppress. 
thus he serve faithfully a jacob serve for rachel. and his leave be nearly at an end when the explosion come. he have really do his best to keep his temper in the hear of the flirtation i have mention. but he break down at last. an old and very distinguish general take miss youghal for a ride and begin that specially offensive you re only a little girl sort of flirtation most difficult for a woman to turn aside deftly and most madden to listen to. miss youghal be shake with fear at the thing he say in the hear of her sais. dulloo strickland stand it a long a he could. then he catch hold of the general s bridle and in most fluent english invite him to step off and be heave over the cliff. next minute miss youghal begin cry. and strickland saw that he have hopelessly give himself away and everything be over. 
the general nearly have a fit while miss youghal be sob out the story of the disguise and the engagement that wasn t recognize by the parent. strickland be furiously angry with himself and more angry with the general for force his hand. so he say nothing but hold the horse s head and prepare to thrash the general a some sort of satisfaction but when the general have thoroughly grasp the story and know who strickland be he begin to puff and blow in the saddle and nearly roll off with laugh. he say strickland deserve a v. c. if it be only for put on a sais s blanket. then he call himself name and vow that he deserve a thrash but he be too old to take it from strickland. then he compliment miss youghal on her lover. the scandal of the business never strike him. for he be a nice old man with a weakness for flirtation. then he laugh again and say that old youghal be a fool. strickland let go of the cob s head and suggest that the general have good help them if that be his opinion. strickland know youghal s weakness for men with title and letter after their name and high official position. it s rather like a forty minute farce say the general but begad i will help if it s only to escape that tremendous thrash i deserve. go along to your home my sais policeman and change into decent kit and i ll attack mr. youghal. miss youghal may i ask you to canter home and wait. 

about seven minute late there be a wild hurroosh at the club. a sais with a blanket and head rope be ask all the men he know. for heaven s sake lend me decent clothe. a the men do not recognize him there be some peculiar scene before strickland could get a hot bath with soda in it in one room a shirt here a collar there a pair of trouser elsewhere and so on. he gallop off with half the club wardrobe on his back and an utter strange s pony under him to the house of old youghal. the general array in purple and fine linen be before him. what the general have say strickland never know but youghal receive strickland with moderate civility. and mr. youghal touch by the devotion of the transform dulloo be almost kind. the general beam and chuckle and miss youghal come in and almost before old youghal know where he be the parental consent have be wrench out and strickland have depart with miss youghal to the telegraph office to wire for his kit. the final embarrassment be when an utter strange attack him on the mall and ask for the steal pony. 
so in the end strickland and miss youghal be marry on the strict understand that strickland should drop his old way and stick to departmental routine which pay best and lead to simla. strickland be far too fond of his wife just then to break his word but it be a sore trial to him. for the street and the bazar and the sound in them be full of mean to strickland and these call to him to come back and take up his wandering and his discovery. some day i will tell you how he break his promise to help a friend. that be long since and he ha by this time be nearly spoil for what he would call shikar. he be forget the slang and the beggar s cant and the mark and the sign and the drift of the undercurrent which if a man would master he must always continue to learn. 
but he fill in his departmental return beautifully. 
yoke with an unbeliever. 
i be die for you and you be die for another. 
punjabi proverb. 
when the gravesend tender leave the p. & o. steamer for bombay and go back to catch the train to town there be many people in it cry. but the one who weep most and most openly be miss agnes laiter. she have reason to cry because the only man she ever love or ever could love so she say be go out to india. and india a every one know be divide equally between jungle tiger cobra cholera and sepoys. 
phil garron lean over the side of the steamer in the rain felt very unhappy too. but he do not cry. he be send out to tea. what tea mean he have not the vague idea but fancy that he would have to ride on a prance horse over hill cover with tea vine and draw a sumptuous salary for do so. and he be very grateful to his uncle for get him the berth. he be really go to reform all his slack shiftless way save a large proportion of his magnificent salary yearly and in a very short time return to marry agnes laiter. phil garron have be lie loose on his friend hand for three year and a he have nothing to do he naturally fell in love. he be very nice. but he be not strong in his view and opinion and principle and though he never come to actual grief his friend be thankful when he say good bye and go out to this mysterious tea business near darjiling. they say. god bless you dear boy. let u never see your face again or at least that be what phil be give to understand. 
when he sail he be very full of a great plan to prove himself several hundred time good than any one have give him credit for to work like a horse and triumphantly marry agnes laiter. he have many good point besides his good look. his only fault be that he be weak the least little bite in the world weak. he have a much notion of economy a the morning sun. and yet you could not lay your hand on any one item and say. herein phil garron be extravagant or reckless. nor could you point out any particular vice in his character. but he be unsatisfactory and a workable a putty. 
agnes laiter go about her duty at home her family object to the engagement with red eye while phil be sail to darjiling a port on the bengal ocean a his mother use to tell her friend. he be popular enough on board ship make many acquaintance and a moderately large liquor bill and send off huge letter to agnes laiter at each port. then he fell to work on this plantation somewhere between darjiling and kangra and though the salary and the horse and the work be not quite all he have fancy he succeed fairly well and give himself much unnecessary credit for his perseverance. 
in the course of time a he settle more into collar and his work grow fix before him the face of agnes laiter go out of his mind and only come when he be at leisure which be not often. he would forget all about her for a fortnight and remember her with a start like a school boy who ha forget to learn his lesson. she do not forget phil because she be of the kind that never forget. only another man a really desirable young man present himself before mr. laiter. and the chance of a marriage with phil be a far off a ever. and his letter be so unsatisfactory. and there be a certain amount of domestic pressure bring to bear on the girl. and the young man really be an eligible person a income go. and the end of all thing be that agnes marry him and write a tempestuous whirlwind of a letter to phil in the wild of darjiling and say she should never know a happy moment all the rest of her life. which be a true prophecy. 
phil get that letter and hold himself ill treat. this be two year after he have come out. but by dint of think fixedly of agnes laiter and look at her photograph and pat himself on the back for be one of the most constant lover in history and warm to the work a he go on he really fancy that he have be very hardly use. he sit down and write one final letter a really pathetic world without end amen epistle. explain how he would be true to eternity and that all woman be very much alike and he would hide his break heart etc. etc. but if at any future time etc. etc. he could afford to wait etc. etc. unchanged affection etc. etc. return to her old love etc. etc. for eight closely write page. from an artistic point of view it be very neat work but an ordinary philistine who know the state of phil s real feeling not the one he rise to a he go on write would have call it the thoroughly mean and selfish work of a thoroughly mean and selfish weak man. but this verdict would have be incorrect. phil pay for the postage and felt every word he have write for at least two day and a half. it be the last flicker before the light go out. 
that letter make agnes laiter very unhappy and she cry and put it away in her desk and become mr. somebody else for the good of her family. which be the first duty of every christian maid. 
phil go his way and think no more of his letter except a an artist think of a neatly touch in sketch. his way be not bad but they be not altogether good until they bring him across dunmaya the daughter of a rajput ex subadar major of our native army. the girl have a strain of hill blood in her and like the hill woman be not a purdah nashin. where phil meet her or how he hear of her doe not matter. she be a good girl and handsome and in her way very clever and shrewd. though of course a little hard. it be to be remember that phil be live very comfortably deny himself no small luxury never put by an anna very satisfy with himself and his good intention be drop all his english correspondent one by one and begin more and more to look upon this land a his home. some men fall this way. and they be of no use afterwards. the climate where he be station be good and it really do not seem to him that there be anything to go home for. 
he do what many planter have do before him that be to say he make up his mind to marry a hill girl and settle down. he be seven and twenty then with a long life before him but no spirit to go through with it. so he marry dunmaya by the form of the english church and some fellow planter say he be a fool and some say he be a wise man. dunmaya be a thoroughly honest girl and in spite of her reverence for an englishman have a reasonable estimate of her husband s weakness. she manage him tenderly and become in le than a year a very passable imitation of an english lady in dress and carriage. [it be curious to think that a hill man after a lifetime s education be a hill man still. but a hill woman can in six month master most of the way of her english sister. there be a coolie woman once. but that be another story. ] dunmaya dress by preference in black and yellow and look well. 
meantime the letter lay in agnes s desk and now and again she would think of poor resolute hard work phil among the cobra and tiger of darjiling toil in the vain hope that she might come back to him. her husband be worth ten phils except that he have rheumatism of the heart. three year after he be marry and after he have try nice and algeria for his complaint he go to bombay where he die and set agnes free. be a devout woman she look on his death and the place of it a a direct interposition of providence and when she have recover from the shock she take out and reread phil s letter with the etc. etc. and the big dash and the little dash and kiss it several time. no one know her in bombay. she have her husband s income which be a large one and phil be close at hand. it be wrong and improper of course but she decide a heroine do in novel to find her old lover to offer him her hand and her gold and with him spend the rest of her life in some spot far from unsympathetic soul. she sit for two month alone in watson s hotel elaborate this decision and the picture be a pretty one. then she set out in search of phil garron assistant on a tea plantation with a more than usually unpronounceable name. 

she find him. she spend a month over it for his plantation be not in the darjiling district at all but near kangra. phil be very little alter and dunmaya be very nice to her. 
now the particular sin and shame of the whole business be that phil who really be not worth think of twice be and be love by dunmaya and more than love by agnes the whole of whose life he seem to have spoil. 
bad of all dunmaya be make a decent man of him. and he will be ultimately save from perdition through her train. 
which be manifestly unfair. 
false dawn. 
to night god know what thing shall tide the earth be rack and faint expectant sleepless open eye. and we who from the earth be make thrill with our mother s pain. 
in durance. 
no man will ever know the exact truth of this story. though woman may sometimes whisper it to one another after a dance when they be put up their hair for the night and compare list of victim. a man of course cannot assist at these function. so the tale must be tell from the outside in the dark all wrong. 
never praise a sister to a sister in the hope of your compliment reach the proper ear and so prepare the way for you late on. sister be woman first and sister afterwards. and you will find that you do yourself harm. 
saumarez know this when he make up his mind to propose to the elder miss copleigh. saumarez be a strange man with few merit so far a men could see though he be popular with woman and carry enough conceit to stock a viceroy s council and leave a little over for the commander in chief s staff. he be a civilian. very many woman take an interest in saumarez perhaps because his manner to them be offensive. if you hit a pony over the nose at the outset of your acquaintance he may not love you but he will take a deep interest in your movement ever afterwards. the elder miss copleigh be nice plump win and pretty. the young be not so pretty and from men disregard the hint set forth above her style be repellant and unattractive. both girl have practically the same figure and there be a strong liken between them in look and voice. though no one could doubt for an instant which be the nice of the two. 
saumarez make up his mind a soon a they come into the station from behar to marry the elder one. at least we all make sure that he would which come to the same thing. she be two and twenty and he be thirty three with pay and allowance of nearly fourteen hundred rupee a month. so the match a we arrange it be in every way a good one. saumarez be his name and summary be his nature a a man once say. have draft his resolution he form a select committee of one to sit upon it and resolve to take his time. in our unpleasant slang the copleigh girl hunt in couple. that be to say you could do nothing with one without the other. they be very love sister. but their mutual affection be sometimes inconvenient. saumarez hold the balance hair true between them and none but himself could have say to which side his heart incline. though every one guess. he ride with them a good deal and dance with them but he never succeed in detach them from each other for any length of time. 
woman say that the two girl keep together through deep mistrust each fear that the other would steal a march on her. but that ha nothing to do with a man. saumarez be silent for good or bad and a business likely attentive a he could be have due regard to his work and his polo. beyond doubt both girl be fond of him. 
a the hot weather draw near and saumarez make no sign woman say that you could see their trouble in the eye of the girl that they be look strain anxious and irritable. men be quite blind in these matter unless they have more of the woman than the man in their composition in which case it doe not matter what they say or think. i maintain it be the hot april day that take the color out of the copleigh girl cheek. they should have be send to the hill early. no one man or woman feel an angel when the hot weather be approach. the young sister grow more cynical not to say acid in her way. and the winningness of the elder wear thin. there be more effort in it. 
now the station wherein all these thing happen be though not a little one off the line of rail and suffer through want of attention. there be no garden or band or amusement worth speak of and it be nearly a day s journey to come into lahore for a dance. people be grateful for small thing to interest them. 
about the begin of may and just before the final exodus of hill goer when the weather be very hot and there be not more than twenty people in the station saumarez give a moonlight rid picnic at an old tomb six mile away near the bed of the river. it be a noah s ark picnic. and there be to be the usual arrangement of quarter mile interval between each couple on account of the dust. six couple come altogether include chaperon. moonlight picnic be useful just at the very end of the season before all the girl go away to the hill. they lead to understanding and should be encourage by chaperone. especially those whose girl look sweetish in rid habit. i know a case once. but that be another story. that picnic be call the great pop picnic because every one know saumarez would propose then to the eldest miss copleigh. and beside his affair there be another which might possibly come to happiness. the social atmosphere be heavily charge and want clear. 
we meet at the parade grind at ten. the night be fearfully hot. the horse sweat even at walk pace but anything be good than sit still in our own dark house. when we move off under the full moon we be four couple one triplet and mr. saumarez ride with the copleigh girl and i loiter at the tail of the procession wonder with whom saumarez would ride home. every one be happy and content. but we all felt that thing be go to happen. we ride slowly. and it be nearly midnight before we reach the old tomb face the ruin tank in the decay garden where we be go to eat and drink. i be late in come up. and before i go into the garden i saw that the horizon to the north carry a faint dun color feather. but no one would have thank me for spoil so well manage an entertainment a this picnic and a dust storm more or le doe no great harm. 
we gather by the tank. some one have bring out a banjo which be a most sentimental instrument and three or four of u sing. you must not laugh at this. our amusement in out of the way station be very few indeed. then we talk in group or together lie under the tree with the sun bake rose drop their petal on our foot until supper be ready. it be a beautiful supper a cold and a ice a you could wish. and we stay long over it. 
i have felt that the air be grow hot and hot. but nobody seem to notice it until the moon go out and a burn hot wind begin lash the orange tree with a sound like the noise of the sea. before we know where we be the dust storm be on u and everything be roar whirl darkness. the supper table be blow bodily into the tank. we be afraid of stay anywhere near the old tomb for fear it might be blow down. so we felt our way to the orange tree where the horse be picket and wait for the storm to blow over. then the little light that be leave vanish and you could not see your hand before your face. the air be heavy with dust and sand from the bed of the river that fill boot and pocket and drift down neck and coat eyebrow and moustache. it be one of the bad dust storm of the year. we be all huddle together close to the tremble horse with the thunder clatter overhead and the lightning spurt like water from a sluice all way at once. there be no danger of course unless the horse break loose. i be stand with my head downward and my hand over my mouth hear the tree thrash each other. i could not see who be next me till the flash come. then i find that i be pack near saumarez and the eldest miss copleigh with my own horse just in front of me. i recognize the eldest miss copleigh because she have a pagri round her helmet and the young have not. all the electricity in the air have go into my body and i be quiver and tingle from head to foot exactly a a corn shoot and tingle before rain. it be a grand storm. the wind seem to be pick up the earth and pitch it to leeward in great heap. and the heat beat up from the grind like the heat of the day of judgment. 
the storm lull slightly after the first half hour and i hear a despair little voice close to my ear say to itself quietly and softly a if some lose soul be fly about with the wind. o my god. then the young miss copleigh stumble into my arm say. where be my horse. get my horse. i want to go home. i want to go home. take me home. 
i think that the lightning and the black darkness have frighten her. so i say there be no danger but she must wait till the storm blow over. she answer. it be not that. it be not that. i want to go home. o take me away from here. 
i say that she could not go till the light come. but i felt her brush past me and go away. it be too dark to see where. then the whole sky be split open with one tremendous flash a if the end of the world be come and all the woman shriek. 
almost directly after this i felt a man s hand on my shoulder and hear saumarez bellow in my ear. through the rattle of the tree and howl of the wind i do not catch his word at once but at last i hear him say. i ve propose to the wrong one. what shall i do. saumarez have no occasion to make this confidence to me. i be never a friend of his nor be i now. but i fancy neither of u be ourselves just then. he be shake a he stand with excitement and i be feel queer all over with the electricity. i could not think of anything to say except. more fool you for propose in a dust storm. but i do not see how that would improve the mistake. 
then he shout. where s edith edith copleigh. edith be the young sister. i answer out of my astonishment. what do you want with her. would you believe it for the next two minute he and i be shout at each other like maniac he vow that it be the young sister he have mean to propose to all along and i tell him till my throat be hoarse that he must have make a mistake. i can t account for this except again by the fact that we be neither of u ourselves. everything seem to me like a bad dream from the stamp of the horse in the darkness to saumarez tell me the story of his love edith copleigh since the first. he be still claw my shoulder and beg me to tell him where edith copleigh be when another lull come and bring light with it and we saw the dust cloud form on the plain in front of u. so we know the bad be over. the moon be low down and there be just the glimmer of the false dawn that come about an hour before the real one. but the light be very faint and the dun cloud roar like a bull. i wonder where edith copleigh have go. and a i be wonder i saw three thing together. first maud copleigh s face come smile out of the darkness and move towards saumarez who be stand by me. i hear the girl whisper george and slide her arm through the arm that be not claw my shoulder and i saw that look on her face which only come once or twice in a lifetime when a woman be perfectly happy and the air be full of trumpet and gorgeous color fire and the earth turn into cloud because she love and be love. at the same time i saw saumarez s face a he hear maud copleigh s voice and fifty yard away from the clump of orange tree i saw a brown holland habit get upon a horse. 
it must have be my state of over excitement that make me so quick to meddle with what do not concern me. saumarez be move off to the habit. but i push him back and say. stop here and explain. i ll fetch her back. and i run out to get at my own horse. i have a perfectly unnecessary notion that everything must be do decently and in order and that saumarez s first care be to wipe the happy look out of maud copleigh s face. all the time i be link up the curb chain i wonder how he would do it. 
i canter after edith copleigh think to bring her back slowly on some pretence or another. but she gallop away a soon a she saw me and i be force to ride after her in earnest. she call back over her shoulder go away. i m go home. oh go away. two or three time. but my business be to catch her first and argue late. the ride just fit in with the rest of the evil dream. the grind be very bad and now and again we rush through the whirl choke dust devil in the skirt of the fly storm. there be a burn hot wind blow that bring up a stench of stale brick kiln with it. and through the half light and through the dust devil across that desolate plain flicker the brown holland habit on the gray horse. she head for the station at first. then she wheel round and set off for the river through bed of burn down jungle grass bad even to ride a pig over. in cold blood i should never have dream of go over such a country at night but it seem quite right and natural with the lightning crackle overhead and a reek like the smell of the pit in my nostril. i ride and shout and she bend forward and lash her horse and the aftermath of the dust storm come up and catch u both and drive u downwind like piece of paper. 
i don t know how far we ride. but the drum of the horse hoof and the roar of the wind and the race of the faint blood red moon through the yellow mist seem to have go on for year and year and i be literally drench with sweat from my helmet to my gaiter when the gray stumble recover himself and pull up dead lame. my brute be use up altogether. edith copleigh be in a sad state plaster with dust her helmet off and cry bitterly. why can t you let me alone. she say. i only want to get away and go home. oh please let me go. 
you have get to come back with me miss copleigh. saumarez ha something to say to you. 
it be a foolish way of put it. but i hardly know miss copleigh. and though i be play providence at the cost of my horse i could not tell her in a many word what saumarez have tell me. i think he could do that good himself. all her pretence about be tire and want to go home break down and she rock herself to and fro in the saddle a she sob and the hot wind blow her black hair to leeward. i be not go to repeat what she say because she be utterly unstring. 
this if you please be the cynical miss copleigh. here be i almost an utter strange to her try to tell her that saumarez love her and she be to come back to hear him say so. i believe i make myself understand for she gather the gray together and make him hobble somehow and we set off for the tomb while the storm go thunder down to umballa and a few big drop of warm rain fell. i find out that she have be stand close to saumarez when he propose to her sister and have want to go home and cry in peace a an english girl should. she dabble her eye with her pocket handkerchief a we go along and babble to me out of sheer lightness of heart and hysteria. that be perfectly unnatural. and yet it seem all right at the time and in the place. all the world be only the two copleigh girl saumarez and i ring in with the lightning and the dark. and the guidance of this misguide world seem to lie in my hand. 
when we return to the tomb in the deep dead stillness that follow the storm the dawn be just break and nobody have go away. they be wait for our return. saumarez most of all. his face be white and draw. a miss copleigh and i limp up he come forward to meet u and when he help her down from her saddle he kiss her before all the picnic. it be like a scene in a theatre and the liken be heighten by all the dust white ghostly look men and woman under the orange tree clap their hand a if they be watch a play at saumarez s choice. i never know anything so un english in my life. 
lastly saumarez say we must all go home or the station would come out to look for u and would i be good enough to ride home with maud copleigh. nothing would give me great pleasure i say. 
so we form up six couple in all and go back two by two. saumarez walk at the side of edith copleigh who be rid his horse. 
the air be clear. and little by little a the sun rise i felt we be all drop back again into ordinary men and woman and that the great pop picnic be a thing altogether apart and out of the world never to happen again. it have go with the dust storm and the tingle in the hot air. 
i felt tire and limp and a good deal ashamed of myself a i go in for a bath and some sleep. 
there be a woman s version of this story but it will never be write. unless maud copleigh care to try. 
the rescue of pluffles. 
thus for a season they fight it fair she and his cousin may tactful talented debonnaire decorous foe be they. but never can battle of man compare with merciless feminine fray. 
two and one. 
mr. hauksbee be sometimes nice to her own sex. here be a story to prove this. and you can believe just a much a ever you please. 
pluffles be a subaltern in the unmentionable. he be callow even for a subaltern. he be callow all over like a canary that have not finish fledge itself. the bad of it be he have three time a much money a be good for him. pluffles papa be a rich man and pluffles be the only son. pluffles mamma adore him. she be only a little le callow than pluffles and she believe everything he say. 
pluffles weakness be not believe what people say. he prefer what he call trust to his own judgment. he have a much judgment a he have seat or hand. and this preference tumble him into trouble once or twice. but the big trouble pluffles ever manufacture come about at simla some year ago when he be four and twenty. 
he begin by trust to his own judgment a usual and the result be that after a time he be bind hand and foot to mr. reiver s rickshaw wheel. 
there be nothing good about mr. reiver unless it be her dress. she be bad from her hair which start life on a brittany s girl s head to her boot heel which be two and three eighth inch high. she be not honestly mischievous like mr. hauksbee. she be wicked in a business like way. 
there be never any scandal she have not generous impulse enough for that. she be the exception which prove the rule that anglo indian lady be in every way a nice a their sister at home. she spend her life in prove that rule. 
mr. hauksbee and she hat each other fervently. they hear far too much to clash. but the thing they say of each other be startle not to say original. mr. hauksbee be honest honest a her own front teeth and but for her love of mischief would have be a woman s woman. there be no honesty about mr. reiver. nothing but selfishness. and at the begin of the season poor little pluffles fell a prey to her. she lay herself out to that end and who be pluffles to resist. he go on trust to his judgment and he get judge. 
i have see hay argue with a tough horse i have see a tonga driver coerce a stubborn pony i have see a riotous setter break to gun by a hard keeper but the break in of pluffles of the unmentionable be beyond all these. he learn to fetch and carry like a dog and to wait like one too for a word from mr. reiver. he learn to keep appointment which mr. reiver have no intention of keep. he learn to take thankfully dance which mr. reiver have no intention of give him. he learn to shiver for an hour and a quarter on the windward side of elysium while mr. reiver be make up her mind to come for a ride. he learn to hunt for a rickshaw in a light dress suit under a pelt rain and to walk by the side of that rickshaw when he have find it. he learn what it be to be speak to like a coolie and order about like a cook. he learn all this and many other thing besides. and he pay for his school. 
perhaps in some hazy way he fancy that it be fine and impressive that it give him a status among men and be altogether the thing to do. it be nobody s business to warn pluffles that he be unwise. the pace that season be too good to inquire. and meddle with another man s folly be always thankless work. pluffles colonel should have order him back to his regiment when he hear how thing be go. but pluffles have get himself engage to a girl in england the last time he go home. and if there be one thing more than another which the colonel detest it be a marry subaltern. he chuckle when he hear of the education of pluffles and say it be good train for the boy. but it be not good train in the least. it lead him into spend money beyond his mean which be good. above that the education spoil an average boy and make it a tenth rate man of an objectionable kind. he wander into a bad set and his little bill at hamilton s be a thing to wonder at. 
then mr. hauksbee rise to the occasion. she play her game alone know what people would say of her. and she play it for the sake of a girl she have never see. pluffles fiancee be to come out under the chaperonage of an aunt in october to be marry to pluffles. 
at the begin of august mr. hauksbee discover that it be time to interfere. a man who ride much know exactly what a horse be go to do next before he doe it. in the same way a woman of mr. hauksbee s experience know accurately how a boy will behave under certain circumstance notably when he be infatuate with one of mr. reiver s stamp. she say that sooner or late little pluffles would break off that engagement for nothing at all simply to gratify mr. reiver who in return would keep him at her foot and in her service just so long a she find it worth her while. she say she know the sign of these thing. if she do not no one else could. 
then she go forth to capture pluffles under the gun of the enemy. just a mr. cusack bremmil carry away bremmil under mr. hauksbee s eye. 
this particular engagement last seven week we call it the seven week war and be fight out inch by inch on both side. a detail account would fill a book and would be incomplete then. any one who know about these thing can fit in the detail for himself. it be a superb fight there will never be another like it a long a jakko stand and pluffles be the prize of victory. people say shameful thing about mr. hauksbee. they do not know what she be play for. mr. reiver fight partly because pluffles be useful to her but mainly because she hat mr. hauksbee and the matter be a trial of strength between them. no one know what pluffles think. he have not many idea at the best of time and the few he possess make him conceited. mr. hauksbee say. the boy must be catch. and the only way of catch him be by treat him well. 
so she treat him a a man of the world and of experience so long a the issue be doubtful. little by little pluffles fell away from his old allegiance and come over to the enemy by whom he be make much of. he be never send on out post duty after rickshaw any more nor be he give dance which never come off nor be the drain on his purse continue. mr. hauksbee hold him on the snaffle. and after his treatment at mr. reiver s hand he appreciate the change. 
mr. reiver have break him of talk about himself and make him talk about her own merit. mr. hauksbee act otherwise and win his confidence till he mention his engagement to the girl at home speak of it in a high and mighty way a a piece of boyish folly. this be when he be take tea with her one afternoon and discourse in what he consider a gay and fascinate style. mr. hauksbee have see an early generation of his stamp bud and blossom and decay into fat captain and tubby major. 
at a moderate estimate there be about three and twenty side to that lady s character. some men say more. she begin to talk to pluffles after the manner of a mother and a if there have be three hundred year instead of fifteen between them. she speak with a sort of throaty quaver in her voice which have a soothe effect though what she say be anything but soothe. she point out the exceed folly not to say meanness of pluffles conduct and the smallness of his view. then he stammer something about trust to his own judgment a a man of the world. and this pave the way for what she want to say next. it would have wither up pluffles have it come from any other woman. but in the soft coo style in which mr. hauksbee put it it only make him feel limp and repentant a if he have be in some superior kind of church. little by little very softly and pleasantly she begin take the conceit out of pluffles a you take the rib out of an umbrella before re cover it. she tell him what she think of him and his judgment and his knowledge of the world. and how his performance have make him ridiculous to other people. and how it be his intention make love to herself if she give him the chance. then she say that marriage would be the make of him. and draw a pretty little picture all rise and opal of the mr. pluffles of the future go through life rely on the judgment and knowledge of the world of a husband who have nothing to reproach himself with. how she reconcile these two statement she alone know. but they do not strike pluffles a conflict. 
hers be a perfect little homily much good than any clergyman could have give and it end with touch allusion to pluffles mamma and papa and the wisdom of take his bride home. 
then she send pluffles out for a walk to think over what she have say. pluffles leave blow his nose very hard and hold himself very straight. mr. hauksbee laugh. 
what pluffles have intend to do in the matter of the engagement only mr. reiver know and she keep her own counsel to her death. she would have like it spoil a a compliment i fancy. 
pluffles enjoy many talk with mr. hauksbee during the next few day. they be all to the same end and they help pluffles in the path of virtue. 
mr. hauksbee want to keep him under her wing to the last. therefore she discountenance his go down to bombay to get marry. goodness only know what might happen by the way. she say. pluffles be curse with the curse of reuben and india be no fit place for him. 
in the end the fiancee arrive with her aunt. and pluffles have reduce his affair to some sort of order here again mr. hauksbee help him be marry. 
mr. hauksbee give a sigh of relief when both the i will have be say and go her way. 
pluffies take her advice about go home. he leave the service and be now raise speckle cattle inside green paint fence somewhere at home. i believe he doe this very judiciously. he would have come to extreme grief out here. 
for these reason if any one say anything more than usually nasty about mr. hauksbee tell him the story of the rescue of pluffles. 
cupid s arrow. 
pit where the buffalo cool his hide by the hot sun empty and blister and dry. log in the reh grass hide and alone. bund where the earth rat s mound be strown. cave in the bank where the sly stream steal. aloe that stab at the belly and heel jump if you dare on a steed untried safe it be to go wide go wide. hark from in front where the best men ride. pull to the off boy. wide. go wide. 
the peora hunt. 
once upon a time there live at simla a very pretty girl the daughter of a poor but honest district and session judge. she be a good girl but could not help know her power and use it. her mamma be very anxious about her daughter s future a all good mamma should be. 
when a man be a commissioner and a bachelor and ha the right of wear open work jam tart jewel in gold and enamel on his clothe and of go through a door before every one except a member of council a lieutenant governor or a viceroy he be worth marry. at least that be what lady say. there be a commissioner in simla in those day who be and wear and do all i have say. he be a plain man an ugly man the ugly man in asia with two exception. his be a face to dream about and try to carve on a pipe head afterwards. his name be saggott barr saggott anthony barr saggott and six letter to follow. departmentally he be one of the best men the government of india own. socially he be like a blandish gorilla. 
when he turn his attention to miss beighton i believe that mr. beighton weep with delight at the reward providence have send her in her old age. 
mr. beighton hold his tongue. he be an easy go man. 
now a commissioner be very rich. his pay be beyond the dream of avarice be so enormous that he can afford to save and scrape in a way that would almost discredit a member of council. most commissioner be mean. but barr saggott be an exception. he entertain royally. he horse himself well. he give dance. he be a power in the land. and he behave a such. 
consider that everything i be write of take place in an almost pre historic era in the history of british india. some folk may remember the year before lawn tennis be bear when we all play croquet. there be season before that if you will believe me when even croquet have not be invent and archery which be revive in england in be a great a pest a lawn tennis be now. people talk learnedly about hold and loose stele reflexed bow pound bow back or self yew bow a we talk about rally volley smash return and ounce racket. 
miss beighton shoot divinely over lady distance yard that be and be acknowledge the best lady archer in simla. men call her diana of tara devi. 
barr saggott pay her great attention. and a i have say the heart of her mother be uplift in consequence. kitty beighton take matter more calmly. it be pleasant to be single out by a commissioner with letter after his name and to fill the heart of other girl with bad feeling. but there be no deny the fact that barr saggott be phenomenally ugly. and all his attempt to adorn himself only make him more grotesque. he be not christen the langur which mean gray ape for nothing. it be pleasant kitty think to have him at her foot but it be good to escape from him and ride with the graceless cubbon the man in a dragoon regiment at umballa the boy with a handsome face and no prospect. kitty like cubbon more than a little. he never pretend for a moment the he be anything le than head over heel in love with her. for he be an honest boy. so kitty flee now and again from the stately wooing of barr saggott to the company of young cubbon and be scold by her mamma in consequence. but mother she say mr. saggot be such such a be so fearfully ugly you know. 
my dear say mr. beighton piously we cannot be other than an all rule providence ha make u. besides you will take precedence of your own mother you know. think of that and be reasonable. 
then kitty put up her little chin and say irreverent thing about precedence and commissioner and matrimony. mr. beighton rub the top of his head. for he be an easy go man. 
late in the season when he judge that the time be ripe barr saggott develop a plan which do great credit to his administrative power. he arrange an archery tournament for lady with a most sumptuous diamond stud bracelet a prize. he draw up his term skilfully and every one saw that the bracelet be a gift to miss beighton. the acceptance carry with it the hand and the heart of commissioner barr saggott. the term be a st. leonard s round thirty six shot at sixty yard under the rule of the simla toxophilite society. 
all simla be invite. there be beautifully arrange tea table under the deodar at annandale where the grand stand be now. and alone in it glory wink in the sun sit the diamond bracelet in a blue velvet case. miss beighton be anxious almost too anxious to compete. on the appoint afternoon all simla ride down to annandale to witness the judgment of paris turn upside down. kitty ride with young cubbon and it be easy to see that the boy be trouble in his mind. he must be hold innocent of everything that follow. kitty be pale and nervous and look long at the bracelet. barr saggott be gorgeously dress even more nervous than kitty and more hideous than ever. 
mr. beighton smile condescendingly a befit the mother of a potential commissioneress and the shoot begin. all the world stand in a semicircle a the lady come out one after the other. 
nothing be so tedious a an archery competition. they shoot and they shoot and they keep on shoot till the sun leave the valley and little breeze get up in the deodar and people wait for miss beighton to shoot and win. cubbon be at one horn of the semicircle round the shooter and barr saggott at the other. miss beighton be last on the list. the score have be weak and the bracelet plus commissioner barr saggott be hers to a certainty. 
the commissioner string her bow with his own sacred hand. she step forward look at the bracelet and her first arrow go true to a hair full into the heart of the gold count nine point. 
young cubbon on the leave turn white and his devil prompt barr saggott to smile. now horse use to shy when barr saggott smile. kitty saw that smile. she look to her leave front give an almost imperceptible nod to cubbon and go on shoot. 
i wish i could describe the scene that follow. it be out of the ordinary and most improper. miss kitty fit her arrow with immense deliberation so that every one might see what she be do. she be a perfect shoot. and her pound bow suit her to a nicety. she pin the wooden leg of the target with great care four successive time. she pin the wooden top of the target once and all the lady look at each other. then she begin some fancy shoot at the white which if you hit it count exactly one point. she put five arrow into the white. it be wonderful archery. but see that her business be to make gold and win the bracelet barr saggott turn a delicate green like young water grass. next she shoot over the target twice then wide to the leave twice always with the same deliberation while a chilly hush fell over the company and mr. beighton take out her handkerchief. then kitty shoot at the grind in front of the target and split several arrow. then she make a red or seven point just to show what she could do if she like and finish up her amaze performance with some more fancy shoot at the target support. here be her score a it be pick off. 
gold. red. blue. black. white. total hit. total score miss beighton. 
barr saggott look a if the last few arrowhead have be drive into his leg instead of the target s and the deep stillness be break by a little snubby mottle half grow girl say in a shrill voice of triumph. then i ve win. 
mr. beighton do her best to bear up. but she weep in the presence of the people. no train could help her through such a disappointment. kitty unstring her bow with a vicious jerk and go back to her place while barr saggott be try to pretend that he enjoy snap the bracelet on the snubby girl s raw red wrist. it be an awkward scene most awkward. every one try to depart in a body and leave kitty to the mercy of her mamma. 
but cubbon take her away instead and the rest isn t worth print. 
his chance in life. 
then a pile of head be lay thirty thousand heap on high all to please the kafir maid where the oxus ripple by. grimly spake atulla khan. love hath make this thing a man. 
oatta s story. 
if you go straight away from levee and government house list past trade ball far beyond everything and everybody you ever know in your respectable life you cross in time the border line where the last drop of white blood end and the full tide of black set in. it would be easy to talk to a new make duchess on the spur of the moment than to the borderline folk without violate some of their convention or hurt their feeling. the black and the white mix very quaintly in their way. sometimes the white show in spurt of fierce childish pride which be pride of race run crook and sometimes the black in still fierce abasement and humility half heathenish custom and strange unaccountable impulse to crime. one of these day this people understand they be far low than the class whence derozio the man who imitate byron spring will turn out a writer or a poet. and then we shall know how they live and what they feel. in the meantime any story about them cannot be absolutely correct in fact or inference. 
miss vezzis come from across the borderline to look after some child who belong to a lady until a regularly ordain nurse could come out. the lady say miss vezzis be a bad dirty nurse and inattentive. it never strike her that miss vezzis have her own life to lead and her own affair to worry over and that these affair be the most important thing in the world to miss vezzis. very few mistress admit this sort of reason. miss vezzis be a black a a boot and to our standard of taste hideously ugly. she wear cotton print gown and bulge shoe. and when she lose her temper with the child she abuse them in the language of the borderline which be part english part portuguese and part native. she be not attractive. but she have her pride and she prefer be call miss vezzis. 
every sunday she dress herself wonderfully and go to see her mamma who live for the most part on an old cane chair in a greasy tussur silk dress gown and a big rabbit warren of a house full of vezzises pereiras ribieras lisboa and gansalveses and a float population of loafer. besides fragment of the day s bazar garlic stale incense clothe throw on the floor petticoat hang on string for screen old bottle pewter crucifix dry immortelle pariah puppy plaster image of the virgin and hat without crown. miss vezzis draw twenty rupee a month for act a nurse and she squabble weekly with her mamma a to the percentage to be give towards housekeep. when the quarrel be over michele d cruze use to shamble across the low mud wall of the compound and make love to miss vezzis after the fashion of the borderline which be hedge about with much ceremony. michele be a poor sickly weed and very black. but he have his pride. he would not be see smoke a huqa for anything. and he look down on native a only a man with seven eighth native blood in his vein can. the vezzis family have their pride too. they trace their descent from a mythical plate layer who have work on the sone bridge when railway be new in india and they value their english origin. michele be a telegraph signaller on r. a month. the fact that he be in government employ make mr. vezzis lenient to the shortcoming of his ancestor. 
there be a compromise legend dom anna the tailor bring it from poonani that a black jew of cochin have once marry into the d cruze family. while it be an open secret that an uncle of mr. d cruze be at that very time do menial work connect with cook for a club in southern india. he send mr d cruze seven rupee eight anna a month. but she felt the disgrace to the family very keenly all the same. 
however in the course of a few sunday mr. vezzis bring herself to overlook these blemish and give her consent to the marriage of her daughter with michele on condition that michele should have at least fifty rupee a month to start marry life upon. this wonderful prudence must have be a linger touch of the mythical plate layer s yorkshire blood. for across the borderline people take a pride in marry when they please not when they can. 
have regard to his departmental prospect miss vezzis might a well have ask michele to go away and come back with the moon in his pocket. but michele be deeply in love with miss vezzis and that help him to endure. he accompany miss vezzis to mass one sunday and after mass walk home through the hot stale dust with her hand in his he swear by several saint whose name would not interest you never to forget miss vezzis. and she swear by her honor and the saint the oath run rather curiously. in nomine sanctissimae. whatever the name of the she saint be. and so forth end with a kiss on the forehead a kiss on the leave cheek and a kiss on the mouth never to forget michele. 
next week michele be transfer and miss vezzis drop tear upon the window sash of the intermediate compartment a he leave the station. 
if you look at the telegraph map of india you will see a long line skirt the coast from backergunge to madras. michele be order to tibasu a little sub office one third down this line to send message on from berhampur to chicacola and to think of miss vezzis and his chance of get fifty rupee a month out of office hour. he have the noise of the bay of bengal and a bengali babu for company. nothing more. he send foolish letter with cross tuck inside the flap of the envelope to miss vezzis. 
when he have be at tibasu for nearly three week his chance come. 
never forget that unless the outward and visible sign of our authority be always before a native he be a incapable a a child of understand what authority mean or where be the danger of disobey it. tibasu be a forget little place with a few orissa mohamedans in it. these hear nothing of the collector sahib for some time and heartily despise the hindu sub judge arrange to start a little mohurrum riot of their own. but the hindu turn out and break their head. when find lawlessness pleasant hindu and mahomedans together raise an aimless sort of donnybrook just to see how far they could go. they loot each other s shop and pay off private grudge in the regular way. it be a nasty little riot but not worth put in the newspaper. 
michele be work in his office when he hear the sound that a man never forget all his life the ah yah of an angry crowd. [when that sound drop about three tone and change to a thick drone ut the man who hear it have good go away if he be alone. ] the native police inspector run in and tell michele that the town be in an uproar and come to wreck the telegraph office. the babu put on his cap and quietly drop out of the window. while the police inspector afraid but obey the old race instinct which recognize a drop of white blood a far a it can be dilute say. what order doe the sahib give. 
the sahib decide michele. though horribly frighten he felt that for the hour he the man with the cochin jew and the menial uncle in his pedigree be the only representative of english authority in the place. then he think of miss vezzis and the fifty rupee and take the situation on himself. there be seven native policeman in tibasu and four crazy smooth bore musket among them. all the men be gray with fear but not beyond lead. michele drop the key of the telegraph instrument and go out at the head of his army to meet the mob. a the shout crew come round a corner of the road he drop and fire. the men behind him loose instinctively at the same time. 
the whole crowd cur to the backbone yell and run. leave one man dead and another die in the road. michele be sweat with fear but he keep his weakness under and go down into the town past the house where the sub judge have barricade himself. the street be empty. tibasu be more frighten than michele for the mob have be take at the right time. 
michele return to the telegraph office and send a message to chicacola ask for help. before an answer come he receive a deputation of the elder of tibasu tell him that the sub judge say his action generally be unconstitional and try to bully him. but the heart of michele d cruze be big and white in his breast because of his love for miss vezzis the nurse girl and because he have taste for the first time responsibility and success. those two make an intoxicate drink and have ruin more men than ever ha whiskey. michele answer that the sub judge might say what he please but until the assistant collector come the telegraph signaller be the government of india in tibasu and the elder of the town would be hold accountable for further riot. then they bow their head and say. show mercy. or word to that effect and go back in great fear. each accuse the other of have begin the riot. 
early in the dawn after a night s patrol with his seven policeman michele go down the road musket in hand to meet the assistant collector who have ride in to quell tibasu. but in the presence of this young englishman michele felt himself slip back more and more into the native and the tale of the tibasu riot end with the strain on the teller in an hysterical outburst of tear breed by sorrow that he have kill a man shame that he could not feel a uplift a he have felt through the night and childish anger that his tongue could not do justice to his great deed. it be the white drop in michele s vein die out though he do not know it. 
but the englishman understand. and after he have school those men of tibasu and have confer with the sub judge till that excellent official turn green he find time to draught an official letter describe the conduct of michele. which letter filter through the proper channel and end in the transfer of michele up country once more on the imperial salary of sixty six rupee a month. 
so he and miss vezzis be marry with great state and ancientry. and now there be several little d cruzes sprawl about the verandah of the central telegraph office. 
but if the whole revenue of the department he serf be to be his reward michele could never never repeat what he do at tibasu for the sake of miss vezzis the nurse girl. 
which prof that when a man doe good work out of all proportion to his pay in seven case out of nine there be a woman at the back of the virtue. 
the two exception must have suffer from sunstroke. 
watch of the night. 
what be in the brahmin s book that be in the brahmin s heart. neither you nor i know there be so much evil in the world. 
hindu proverb. 
this begin in a practical joke. but it ha go far enough now and be get serious. 
platte the subaltern be poor have a waterbury watch and a plain leather guard. 
the colonel have a waterbury watch also and for guard the lip strap of a curb chain. lip strap make the best watch guard. they be strong and short. between a lip strap and an ordinary leather guard there be no great difference. between one waterbury watch and another there be none at all. every one in the station know the colonel s lip strap. he be not a horsey man but he like people to believe he have be on once. and he weave fantastic story of the hunt bridle to which this particular lip strap have belong. otherwise he be painfully religious. 
platte and the colonel be dress at the club both late for their engagement and both in a hurry. that be kismet. the two watch be on a shelf below the look glass guard hang down. that be carelessness. platte change first snatch a watch look in the glass settle his tie and run. forty second late the colonel do exactly the same thing. each man take the other s watch. 
you may have notice that many religious people be deeply suspicious. they seem for purely religious purpose of course to know more about iniquity than the unregenerate. perhaps they be specially bad before they become convert. at any rate in the imputation of thing evil and in put the bad construction on thing innocent a certain type of good people may be trust to surpass all others. the colonel and his wife be of that type. but the colonel s wife be the bad. she manufacture the station scandal and talk to her ayah. nothing more need be say. the colonel s wife break up the laplace s home. the colonel s wife stop the ferris haughtrey engagement. the colonel s wife induce young buxton to keep his wife down in the plain through the first year of the marriage. whereby little mr. buxton die and the baby with her. these thing will be remember against the colonel s wife so long a there be a regiment in the country. 
but to come back to the colonel and platte. they go their several way from the dress room. the colonel din with two chaplain while platte go to a bachelor party and whist to follow. 
mark how thing happen. if platte s sais have put the new saddle pad on the mare the butt of the territs would not have work through the wear leather and the old pad into the mare s wither when she be come home at two o clock in the morning. she would not have rear bolt fall into a ditch upset the cart and send platte fly over an aloe hedge on to mr. larkyn s well keep lawn. and this tale would never have be write. but the mare do all these thing and while platte be roll over and over on the turf like a shoot rabbit the watch and guard fly from his waistcoat a an infantry major s sword hop out of the scabbard when they be fire a feu de joie and roll and roll in the moonlight till it stop under a window. 
platte stuff his handkerchief under the pad put the cart straight and go home. 
mark again how kismet work. this would not happen once in a hundred year. towards the end of his dinner with the two chaplain the colonel let out his waistcoat and lean over the table to look at some mission report. the bar of the watch guard work through the buttonhole and the watch platte s watch slide quietly on to the carpet. where the bearer find it next morning and keep it. 
then the colonel go home to the wife of his bosom. but the driver of the carriage be drink and lose his way. so the colonel return at an unseemly hour and his excuse be not accept. if the colonel s wife have be an ordinary vessel of wrath appoint for destruction she would have know that when a man stay away on purpose his excuse be always sound and original. the very baldness of the colonel s explanation prove it truth. 
see once more the working of kismet. the colonel s watch which come with platte hurriedly on to mr. larkyn s lawn choose to stop just under mr. larkyn s window where she saw it early in the morning recognize it and pick it up. she have hear the crash of platte s cart at two o clock that morning and his voice call the mare name. she know platte and like him. that day she show him the watch and hear his story. he put his head on one side wink and say. how disgust. shock old man. with his religious train too. i should send the watch to the colonel s wife and ask for explanation. 
mr. larkyn think for a minute of the laplace whom she have know when laplace and his wife believe in each other and answer. i will send it. i think it will do her good. but remember we must never tell her the truth. 
platte guess that his own watch be in the colonel s possession and think that the return of the lip strap waterbury with a soothe note from mr. larkyn would merely create a small trouble for a few minute. mr. larkyn know good. she know that any poison drop would find good hold grind in the heart of the colonel s wife. 
the packet and a note contain a few remark on the colonel s call hour be send over to the colonel s wife who weep in her own room and take counsel with herself. 
if there be one woman under heaven whom the colonel s wife hat with holy fervor it be mr. larkyn. mr. larkyn be a frivolous lady and call the colonel s wife old cat. the colonel s wife say that somebody in revelation be remarkably like mr. larkyn. she mention other scripture people a well. from the old testament. [but the colonel s wife be the only person who care or dare to say anything against mr. larkyn. every one else accept her a an amuse honest little body. ] wherefore to believe that her husband have be shed watch under that thing s window at ungodly hour couple with the fact of his late arrival on the previous night be. 
at this point she rise up and seek her husband. he deny everything except the ownership of the watch. she beseech him for his soul s sake to speak the truth. he deny afresh with two bad word. then a stony silence hold the colonel s wife while a man could draw his breath five time. 
the speech that follow be no affair of mine or yours. it be make up of wifely and womanly jealousy. knowledge of old age and sink cheek. deep mistrust bear of the text that say even little baby heart be a bad a they make them. rancorous hatred of mr. larkyn and the tenet of the creed of the colonel s wife s upbringing. 
over and above all be the damn lip strap waterbury tick away in the palm of her shake wither hand. at that hour i think the colonel s wife realize a little of the restless suspicion she have inject into old laplace s mind a little of poor miss haughtrey s misery and some of the canker that eat into buxton s heart a he watch his wife die before his eye. the colonel stammer and try to explain. then he remember that his watch have disappear. and the mystery grow great. the colonel s wife talk and pray by turn till she be tire and go away to devise mean for chasten the stubborn heart of her husband. which translate mean in our slang tail twist. 
you see be deeply impress with the doctrine of original sin she could not believe in the face of appearance. she know too much and jump to the wild conclusion. 
but it be good for her. it spoil her life a she have spoil the life of the laplace. she have lose her faith in the colonel and here the creed suspicion come in he might she argue have err many time before a merciful providence at the hand of so unworthy an instrument a mr. larkyn have establish his guilt. he be a bad wicked gray haired profligate. this may sound too sudden a revulsion for a long wed wife. but it be a venerable fact that if a man or woman make a practice of and take a delight in believe and spread evil of people indifferent to him or her he or she will end in believe evil of folk very near and dear. you may think also that the mere incident of the watch be too small and trivial to raise this misunderstand. it be another age fact that in life a well a race all the bad accident happen at little ditch and cut down fence. in the same way you sometimes see a woman who would have make a joan of arc in another century and climate thresh herself to piece over all the mean worry of housekeep. but that be another story. 
her belief only make the colonel s wife more wretched because it insist so strongly on the villainy of men. remember what she have do it be pleasant to watch her unhappiness and the penny farthing attempt she make to hide it from the station. but the station know and laugh heartlessly. for they have hear the story of the watch with much dramatic gesture from mr. larkyn s lip. 
once or twice platte say to mr. larkyn see that the colonel have not clear himself. this thing ha go far enough. i move we tell the colonel s wife how it happen. mr. larkyn shut her lip and shake her head and vow that the colonel s wife must bear her punishment a best she could. now mr. larkyn be a frivolous woman in whom none would have suspect deep hate. so platte take no action and come to believe gradually from the colonel s silence that the colonel must have run off the line somewhere that night and therefore prefer to stand sentence on the less count of ramble into other people s compound out of call hour. platte forget about the watch business after a while and move down country with his regiment. mr. larkyn go home when her husband s tour of indian service expire. she never forget. 
but platte be quite right when he say that the joke have go too far. the mistrust and the tragedy of it which we outsider cannot see and do not believe in be kill the colonel s wife and be make the colonel wretched. if either of them read this story they can depend upon it be a fairly true account of the case and can kiss and make friend. 
shakespeare allude to the pleasure of watch an engineer be shell by his own battery. now this show that poet should not write about what they do not understand. any one could have tell him that sapper and gunner be perfectly different branch of the service. but if you correct the sentence and substitute gunner for sapper the moral come just the same. 
the other man. 
when the earth be sick and the sky be gray and the wood be rot with rain the dead man ride through the autumn day to visit his love again. 
old ballad. 
far back in the seventy before they have build any public office at simla and the broad road round jakko live in a pigeon hole in the p. w. d. hovel her parent make miss gaurey marry colonel schriederling. he could not have be much more than thirty five year her senior. and a he live on two hundred rupee a month and have money of his own he be well off. he belong to good people and suffer in the cold weather from lung complaint. in the hot weather he dangle on the brink of heat apoplexy. but it never quite kill him. 
understand i do not blame schriederling. he be a good husband accord to his light and his temper only fail him when he be be nurse. which be some seventeen day in each month. he be almost generous to his wife about money matter and that for him be a concession. still mr. schreiderling be not happy. they marry her when she be this side of twenty and have give all her poor little heart to another man. i have forget his name but we will call him the other man. he have no money and no prospect. he be not even good look. and i think he be in the commissariat or transport. but in spite of all these thing she love him very madly. and there be some sort of an engagement between the two when schreiderling appear and tell mr. gaurey that he wish to marry her daughter. then the other engagement be break off wash away by mr. gaurey s tear for that lady govern her house by weep over disobedience to her authority and the lack of reverence she receive in her old age. the daughter do not take after her mother. she never cry. not even at the wed. 
the other man bore his loss quietly and be transfer to a bad a station a he could find. perhaps the climate console him. he suffer from intermittent fever and that may have distract him from his other trouble. he be weak about the heart also. both way. one of the valve be affect and the fever make it bad. this show itself late on. 
then many month pass and mr. schreiderling take to be ill. she do not pine away like people in story book but she seem to pick up every form of illness that go about a station from simple fever upwards. she be never more than ordinarily pretty at the best of time. and the illness make her ugly. schreiderling say so. he pride himself on speak his mind. 
when she cease be pretty he leave her to her own device and go back to the lair of his bachelordom. she use to trot up and down simla mall in a forlorn sort of way with a gray terai hat well on the back of her head and a shock bad saddle under her. schreiderling s generosity stop at the horse. he say that any saddle would do for a woman a nervous a mr. schreiderling. she never be ask to dance because she do not dance well. and she be so dull and uninteresting that her box very seldom have any card in it. schreiderling say that if he have know that she be go to be such a scare crow after her marriage he would never have marry her. he always pride himself on speak his mind do schreiderling. 
he leave her at simla one august and go down to his regiment. then she revive a little but she never recover her look. i find out at the club that the other man be come up sick very sick on an off chance of recovery. the fever and the heart valve have nearly kill him. she know that too and she know what i have no interest in know when he be come up. i suppose he write to tell her. they have not see each other since a month before the wed. and here come the unpleasant part of the story. 
a late call keep me down at the dovedell hotel till dusk one even. mr. schreidlerling have be flit up and down the mall all the afternoon in the rain. come up along the cart road a tonga pass me and my pony tire with stand so long set off at a canter. just by the road down to the tonga office mr. schreiderling drip from head to foot be wait for the tonga. i turn up hill a the tonga be no affair of mine. and just then she begin to shriek. i go back at once and saw under the tonga office lamp mr. schreiderling kneel in the wet road by the back seat of the newly arrive tonga scream hideously. then she fell face down in the dirt a i come up. 
sit in the back seat very square and firm with one hand on the awning stanchion and the wet pour off his hat and moustache be the other man dead. the sixty mile up hill jolt have be too much for his valve i suppose. the tonga driver say. the sahib die two stage out of solon. therefore i tie him with a rope l he should fall out by the way and so come to simla. will the sahib give me bukshish. it point to the other man should have give one rupee. 
the other man sit with a grin on his face a if he enjoy the joke of his arrival. and mr. schreiderling in the mud begin to groan. there be no one except u four in the office and it be rain heavily. the first thing be to take mr. schreiderling home and the second be to prevent her name from be mix up with the affair. the tonga driver receive five rupee to find a bazar rickshaw for mr. schreiderling. he be to tell the tonga babu afterwards of the other man and the babu be to make such arrangement a seem best. 
mr. schreiderling be carry into the shed out of the rain and for three quarter of an hour we two wait for the rickshaw. the other man be leave exactly a he have arrive. mr. schreiderling would do everything but cry which might have help her. she try to scream a soon a her sens come back and then she begin pray for the other man s soul. have she not be a honest a the day she would have pray for her own soul too. i wait to hear her do this but she do not. then i try to get some of the mud off her habit. lastly the rickshaw come and i get her away partly by force. it be a terrible business from begin to end. but most of all when the rickshaw have to squeeze between the wall and the tonga and she saw by the lamp light that thin yellow hand grasp the awning stanchion. 
she be take home just a every one be go to a dance at viceregal lodge peterhoff it be then and the doctor find that she have fall from her horse that i have pick her up at the back of jakko and really deserve great credit for the prompt manner in which i have secure medical aid. she do not die men of schreiderling s stamp marry woman who don t die easily. they live and grow ugly. 
she never tell of her one meet since her marriage with the other man. and when the chill and cough follow the exposure of that even allow her abroad she never by word or sign allude to have meet me by the tonga office. perhaps she never know. 
she use to trot up and down the mall on that shock bad saddle look a if she expect to meet some one round the corner every minute. two year afterward she go home and die at bournemouth i think. 
schreiderling when he grow maudlin at mess use to talk about my poor dear wife. he always set great store on speak his mind do schreiderling. 
consequence. 
rosicrucian subtlety in the orient have rise. ye may find their teacher still under jacatala s hill. seek ye bombast paracelsus read what flood the seeker tell u of the dominant that run through the cycle of the sun read my story last and see luna at her apogee. 
there be yearly appointment and two yearly appointment and five yearly appointment at simla and there be or use to be permanent appointment whereon you stay up for the term of your natural life and secure red cheek and a nice income. of course you could descend in the cold weather. for simla be rather dull then. 
tarrion come from goodness know where all away and away in some forsake part of central india where they call pachmari a sanitarium and drive behind trot bullock i believe. he belong to a regiment. but what he really want to do be to escape from his regiment and live in simla forever and ever. he have no preference for anything in particular beyond a good horse and a nice partner. he think he could do everything well. which be a beautiful belief when you hold it with all your heart. he be clever in many way and good to look at and always make people round him comfortable even in central india. 
so he go up to simla and because he be clever and amuse he gravitate naturally to mr. hauksbee who could forgive everything but stupidity. once he do her great service by change the date on an invitation card for a big dance which mr. hauksbee wish to attend but couldn t because she have quarrel with the a. d. c. who take care be a mean man to invite her to a small dance on the th instead of the big ball of the th. it be a very clever piece of forgery. and when mr. hauksbee show the a. d. c. her invitation card and chaff him mildly for not good manage his vendetta he really think he have make a mistake. and which be wise realize that it be no use to fight with mr. hauksbee. she be grateful to tarrion and ask what she could do for him. he say simply. i m a freelance up here on leave and on the lookout for what i can loot. i haven t a square inch of interest in all simla. my name isn t know to any man with an appointment in his gift and i want an appointment a good sound pukka one. i believe you can do anything you turn yourself to do. will you help me. mr. hauksbee think for a minute and pass the last of her rid whip through her lip a be her custom when think. then her eye sparkle and she say. i will. and she shake hand on it. tarrion have perfect confidence in this great woman take no further think of the business at all. except to wonder what sort of an appointment he would win. 
mr. hauksbee begin calculate the price of all the head of department and member of council she know and the more she think the more she laugh because her heart be in the game and it amuse her. then she take a civil list and run over a few of the appointment. there be some beautiful appointment in the civil list. eventually she decide that though tarrion be too good for the political department she have good begin by try to get him in there. what be her own plan to this end doe not matter in the least for luck or fate play into her hand and she have nothing to do but to watch the course of event and take the credit of them. 
all viceroy when they first come out pas through the diplomatic secrecy craze. it wear off in time. but they all catch it in the begin because they be new to the country. the particular viceroy who be suffer from the complaint just then this be a long time ago before lord dufferin ever come from canada or lord ripon from the bosom of the english church have it very badly. and the result be that men who be new to keep official secret go about look unhappy. and the viceroy plume himself on the way in which he have instill notion of reticence into his staff. 
now the supreme government have a careless custom of commit what they do to print paper. these paper deal with all sort of thing from the payment of r. to a secret service native up to rebuke administer to vakils and motamids of native state and rather brusque letter to native prince tell them to put their house in order to refrain from kidnap woman or fill offender with pound red pepper and eccentricity of that kind. of course these thing could never be make public because native prince never err officially and their state be officially a well administer a our territory. also the private allowance to various queer people be not exactly matter to put into newspaper though they give quaint read sometimes. when the supreme government be at simla these paper be prepare there and go round to the people who ought to see them in office box or by post. the principle of secrecy be to that viceroy quite a important a the practice and he hold that a benevolent despotism like ours should never allow even little thing such a appointment of subordinate clerk to leak out till the proper time. he be always remarkable for his principle. 
there be a very important batch of paper in preparation at that time. it have to travel from one end of simla to the other by hand. it be not put into an official envelope but a large square pale pink one. the matter be in m. on soft crinkley paper. it be address to the head clerk etc. etc. now between the head clerk etc. etc. and mr. hauksbee and a flourish be no very great difference if the address be write in a very bad hand a this be. the chaprassi who take the envelope be not more of an idiot than most chaprassis. he merely forget where this most unofficial cover be to be deliver and so ask the first englishman he meet who happen to be a man rid down to annandale in a great hurry. the englishman hardly look say. hauksbee sahib ki mem and go on. so do the chaprasss because that letter be the last in stock and he want to get his work over. there be no book to sign. he thrust the letter into mr. hauksbee s bearer s hand and go off to smoke with a friend. mr. hauksbee be expect some cut out pattern thing in flimsy paper from a friend. a soon a she get the big square packet therefore she say oh the dear creature. and tear it open with a paper knife and all the m. enclosure tumble out on the floor. 
mr. hauksbee begin read. i have say the batch be rather important. that be quite enough for you to know. it refer to some correspondence two measure a peremptory order to a native chief and two dozen other thing. mr. hauksbee gasp a she read for the first glimpse of the naked machinery of the great indian government strip of it casing and lacquer and paint and guard rail impress even the most stupid man. and mr. hauksbee be a clever woman. she be a little afraid at first and felt a if she have lay hold of a lightning flash by the tail and do not quite know what to do with it. there be remark and initial at the side of the paper. and some of the remark be rather more severe than the paper. the initial belong to men who be all dead or go now. but they be great in their day. mr. hauksbee read on and think calmly a she read. then the value of her trove strike her and she cast about for the best method of use it. then tarrion drop in and they read through all the paper together and tarrion not know how she have come by them vow that mr. hauksbee be the great woman on earth. which i believe be true or nearly so. 
the honest course be always the best say tarrion after an hour and a half of study and conversation. all thing consider the intelligence branch be about my form. either that or the foreign office. i go to lay siege to the high god in their temple. 
he do not seek a little man or a little big man or a weak head of a strong department but he call on the big and strong man that the government own and explain that he want an appointment at simla on a good salary. the compound insolence of this amuse the strong man and a he have nothing to do for the moment he listen to the proposal of the audacious tarrion. you have i presume some special qualification besides the gift of self assertion for the claim you put forward. say the strong man. that sir say tarrion be for you to judge. then he begin for he have a good memory quote a few of the more important note in the paper slowly and one by one a a man drop chlorodyne into a glass. when he have reach the peremptory order and it be a peremptory order the strong man be trouble. 
tarrion wind up. and i fancy that special knowledge of this kind be at least a valuable for let u say a berth in the foreign office a the fact of be the nephew of a distinguish officer s wife. that hit the strong man hard for the last appointment to the foreign office have be by black favor and he know it. i ll see what i can do for you say the strong man. many thank say tarrion. then he leave and the strong man depart to see how the appointment be to be block. 

follow a pause of eleven day. with thunder and lightning and much telegraph. the appointment be not a very important one carry only between r. and r. a month. but a the viceroy say it be the principle of diplomatic secrecy that have to be maintain and it be more than likely that a boy so well supply with special information would be worth translate. so they translate him. they must have suspect him though he protest that his information be due to singular talent of his own. now much of this story include the after history of the miss envelope you must fill in for yourself because there be reason why it cannot be write. if you do not know about thing up above you win t understand how to fill it in and you will say it be impossible. 
what the viceroy say when tarrion be introduce to him be. so this be the boy who rusked the government of india be it. recollect sir that be not do twice. so he must have know something. 
what tarrion say when he saw his appointment gazette be. if mr. hauksbee be twenty year young and i her husband i should be viceroy of india in twenty year. 
what mr. hauksbee say when tarrion thank her almost with tear in his eye be first. i tell you so. and next to herself. what fool men be. 
the conversion of aurelian mcgoggin. 
ride with an idle whip ride with an unused heel. but once in a way there will come a day when the colt must be teach to feel the lash that fall and the curb that gall and the sting of the rowelled steel. 
life s handicap. 
this be not a tale exactly. it be a tract. and i be immensely proud of it. make a tract be a feat. 
every man be entitle to his own religious opinion. but no man least of all a junior ha a right to thrust these down other men s throat. the government send out weird civilian now and again. but mcgoggin be the queer export for a long time. he be clever brilliantly clever but his cleverness work the wrong way. instead of keep to the study of the vernacular he have read some book write by a man call comte i think and a man call spencer and a professor clifford. [you will find these book in the library. ] they deal with people s inside from the point of view of men who have no stomach. there be no order against his read them. but his mamma should have smack him. they ferment in his head and he come out to india with a rarefy religion over and above his work. it be not much of a creed. it only prove that men have no soul and there be no god and no hereafter and that you must worry along somehow for the good of humanity. 
one of it minor tenet seem to be that the one thing more sinful than give an order be obey it. at least that be what mcgoggin say. but i suspect he have misread his primer. 
i do not say a word against this creed. it be make up in town where there be nothing but machinery and asphalt and build all shut in by the fog. naturally a man grow to think that there be no one high than himself and that the metropolitan board of work make everything. but in this country where you really see humanity raw brown naked humanity with nothing between it and the blaze sky and only the use up over handle earth underfoot the notion somehow dy away and most folk come back to simple theory. life in india be not long enough to waste in prove that there be no one in particular at the head of affair. for this reason. the deputy be above the assistant the commissioner above the deputy the lieutenant governor above the commissioner and the viceroy above all four under the order of the secretary of state who be responsible to the empress. if the empress be not responsible to her maker if there be no maker for her to be responsible to the entire system of our administration must be wrong. which be manifestly impossible. at home men be to be excuse. they be stall up a good deal and get intellectually beany. when you take a gross beany horse to exercise he slaver and slobber over the bite till you can t see the horn. but the bite be there just the same. men do not get beany in india. the climate and the work be against play brick with word. 
if mcgoggin have keep his creed with the capital letter and the ending in ism to himself no one would have care. but his grandfather on both side have be wesleyan preacher and the preach strain come out in his mind. he want every one at the club to see that they have no soul too and to help him to eliminate his creator. a a good many men tell him he undoubtedly have no soul because he be so young but it do not follow that his senior be equally undeveloped. and whether there be another world or not a man still want to read his paper in this. but that be not the point that be not the point. aurelian use to say. then men throw sofa cushion at him and tell him to go to any particular place he might believe in. they christen him the blastoderm he say he come from a family of that name somewhere in the pre historic age and by insult and laughter strive to choke him dumb for he be an unmitigated nuisance at the club. besides be an offence to the old men. his deputy commissioner who be work on the frontier when aurelian be roll on a bed quilt tell him that for a clever boy aurelian be a very big idiot. and you know if he have go on with his work he would have be catch up to the secretariat in a few year. he be just the type that go there all head no physique and a hundred theory. not a soul be interest in mcgoggin s soul. he might have have two or none or somebody s else s. his business be to obey order and keep abreast of his file instead of devastate the club with ism. 
he work brilliantly. but he could not accept any order without try to good it. that be the fault of his creed. it make men too responsible and leave too much to their honor. you can sometimes ride an old horse in a halter. but never a colt. mcgoggin take more trouble over his case than any of the men of his year. he may have fancy that thirty page judgment on fifty rupee case both side perjure to the gullet advance the cause of humanity. at any rate he work too much and worry and fret over the rebuke he receive and lecture away on his ridiculous creed out of office till the doctor have to warn him that he be overdo it. no man can toil eighteen anna in the rupee in june without suffer. but mcgoggin be still intellectually beany and proud of himself and his power and he would take no hint. he work nine hour a day steadily. 
very well say the doctor you ll break down because you be over engined for your beam. mcgoggin be a little chap. 
one day the collapse come a dramatically a if it have be mean to embellish a tract. 
it be just before the rain. we be sit in the verandah in the dead hot close air gasp and pray that the black blue cloud would let down and bring the cool. very very far away there be a faint whisper which be the roar of the rain break over the river. one of the men hear it get out of his chair listen and say naturally enough. thank god. 
then the blastoderm turn in his place and say. why. i assure you it s only the result of perfectly natural cause atmospheric phenomenon of the simple kind. why you should therefore return thank to a be who never do exist who be only a figment. 
blastoderm grunt the man in the next chair dry up and throw me over the pioneer. we know all about your figment. the blastoderm reach out to the table take up one paper and jump a if something have sting him. then he hand the paper over. 
a i be say he go on slowly and with an effort due to perfectly natural cause perfectly natural cause. i mean. 
hi. blastoderm you ve give me the calcutta mercantile advertiser. 
the dust get up in little whorl while the treetop rock and the kite whistle. but no one be look at the come of the rain. we be all star at the blastoderm who have rise from his chair and be fight with his speech. then he say still more slowly. 
perfectly conceivable dictionary red oak amenable cause retain shuttlecock alone. 
blastoderm s drink say one man. but the blastoderm be not drink. he look at u in a daze sort of way and begin motion with his hand in the half light a the cloud close overhead. then with a scream. 
what be it. can t reserve attainable market obscure. 
but his speech seem to freeze in him and just a the lightning shoot two tongue that cut the whole sky into three piece and the rain fell in quiver sheet the blastoderm be strike dumb. he stand paw and champ like a hard hold horse and his eye be full of terror. 
the doctor come over in three minute and hear the story. it s aphasia he say. take him to his room. i know the smash would come. we carry the blastoderm across in the pour rain to his quarter and the doctor give him bromide of potassium to make him sleep. 
then the doctor come back to u and tell u that aphasia be like all the arrears of punjab head fall in a lump. and that only once before in the case of a sepoy have he meet with so complete a case. i myself have see mild aphasia in an overwork man but this sudden dumbness be uncanny though a the blastoderm himself might have say due to perfectly natural cause. 
he ll have to take leave after this say the doctor. he win t be fit for work for another three month. no. it isn t insanity or anything like it. it s only complete loss of control over the speech and memory. i fancy it will keep the blastoderm quiet though. 
two day late the blastoderm find his tongue again. the first question he ask be. what be it. the doctor enlighten him. but i can t understand it. say the blastoderm. i m quite sane. but i can t be sure of my mind it seem my own memory can i. 
go up into the hill for three month and don t think about it say the doctor. 
but i can t understand it repeat the blastoderm. it be my own mind and memory. 
i can t help it say the doctor. there be a good many thing you can t understand. and by the time you have put in my length of service you ll know exactly how much a man dare call his own in this world. 
the stroke cow the blastoderm. he could not understand it. he go into the hill in fear and tremble wonder whether he would be permit to reach the end of any sentence he begin. 
this give him a wholesome feel of mistrust. the legitimate explanation that he have be overwork himself fail to satisfy him. something have wipe his lip of speech a a mother wipe the milky lip of her child and he be afraid horribly afraid. 
so the club have rest when he return. and if ever you come across aurelian mcgoggin lay down the law on thing human he doesn t seem to know a much a he use to about thing divine put your forefinger on your lip for a moment and see what happen. 
don t blame me if he throw a glass at your head. 
a germ destroyer. 
pleasant it be for the little tin god when great jove nod. but little tin god make their little mistake in miss the hour when great jove wake. 
a a general rule it be inexpedient to meddle with question of state in a land where men be highly pay to work them out for you. this tale be a justifiable exception. 
once in every five year a you know we indent for a new viceroy. and each viceroy import with the rest of his baggage a private secretary who may or may not be the real viceroy just a fate ordain. fate look after the indian empire because it be so big and so helpless. 
there be a viceroy once who bring out with him a turbulent private secretary a hard man with a soft manner and a morbid passion for work. this secretary be call wonder john fennil wonder. the viceroy possess no name nothing but a string of county and two third of the alphabet after them. he say in confidence that he be the electro plat figurehead of a golden administration and he watch in a dreamy amuse way wonder s attempt to draw matter which be entirely outside his province into his own hand. when we be all cherubims together say his excellency once my dear good friend wonder will head the conspiracy for pluck out gabriel s tail feather or steal peter s key. then i shall report him. 
but though the viceroy do nothing to check wonder s officiousness other people say unpleasant thing. maybe the member of council begin it. but finally all simla agree that there be too much wonder and too little viceroy in that regime. wonder be always quote his excellency. it be his excellency this his excellency that in the opinion of his excellency and so on. the viceroy smile. but he do not heed. he say that so long a his old men squabble with his dear good wonder they might be induce to leave the immemorial east in peace. 
no wise man ha a policy say the viceroy. a policy be the blackmail levy on the fool by the unforeseen. i be not the former and i do not believe in the latter. 
i do not quite see what this mean unless it refer to an insurance policy. perhaps it be the viceroy s way of say. lie low. 
that season come up to simla one of these crazy people with only a single idea. these be the men who make thing move. but they be not nice to talk to. this man s name be mellish and he have live for fifteen year on land of his own in low bengal study cholera. he hold that cholera be a germ that propagate itself a it fly through a muggy atmosphere. and stick in the branch of tree like a wool flake. the germ could be render sterile he say by mellish s own invincible fumigatory a heavy violet black powder the result of fifteen year scientific investigation sir. 
inventor seem very much alike a a caste. they talk loudly especially about conspiracy of monopolist. they beat upon the table with their fist. and they secrete fragment of their invention about their person. 
mellish say that there be a medical ring at simla head by the surgeon general who be in league apparently with all the hospital assistant in the empire. i forget exactly how he prove it but it have something to do with skulk up to the hill. and what mellish want be the independent evidence of the viceroy steward of our most gracious majesty the queen sir. so mellish go up to simla with eighty four pound of fumigatory in his trunk to speak to the viceroy and to show him the merit of the invention. 
but it be easy to see a viceroy than to talk to him unless you chance to be a important a mellishe of madras. he be a six thousand rupee man so great that his daughter never marry. they contract alliance. he himself be not pay. he receive emolument and his journey about the country be tour of observation. his business be to stir up the people in madras with a long pole a you stir up stench in a pond and the people have to come up out of their comfortable old way and gasp. this be enlightenment and progress. isn t it fine. then they give mellishe statue and jasmine garland in the hope of get rid of him. 
mellishe come up to simla to confer with the viceroy. that be one of his perquisite. the viceroy know nothing of mellishe except that he be one of those middle class deity who seem necessary to the spiritual comfort of this paradise of the middle class and that in all probability he have suggest design found and endow all the public institution in madras. which prof that his excellency though dreamy have experience of the way of six thousand rupee men. 
mellishe s name be e. mellishe and mellish s be e. s. mellish and they be both stay at the same hotel and the fate that look after the indian empire ordain that wonder should blunder and drop the final e. that the chaprassi should help him and that the note which run. dear mr. mellish. can you set aside your other engagement and lunch with u at two to morrow. his excellency ha an hour at your disposal then should be give to mellish with the fumigatory. he nearly weep with pride and delight and at the appoint hour canter off to peterhoff a big paper bag full of the fumigatory in his coat tail pocket. he have his chance and he mean to make the most of it. mellishe of madras have be so portentously solemn about his conference that wonder have arrange for a private tiffin no a. d. c. s no wonder no one but the viceroy who say plaintively that he fear be leave alone with unmuzzle autocrat like the great mellishe of madras. 
but his guest do not bore the viceroy. on the contrary he amuse him. mellish be nervously anxious to go straight to his fumigatory and talk at random until tiffin be over and his excellency ask him to smoke. the viceroy be please with mellish because he do not talk shop. 
a soon a the cheroot be light mellish speak like a man. begin with his cholera theory review his fifteen year scientific labor the machination of the simla ring and the excellence of his fumigatory while the viceroy watch him between half shut eye and think. evidently this be the wrong tiger. but it be an original animal. mellish s hair be stand on end with excitement and he stammer. he begin grope in his coat tail and before the viceroy know what be about to happen he have tip a bagful of his powder into the big silver ash tray. 
j j judge for yourself sir say mellish. y excellency shall judge for yourself. absolutely infallible on my honor. 
he plunge the light end of his cigar into the powder which begin to smoke like a volcano and send up fat greasy wreath of copper color smoke. in five second the room be fill with a most pungent and sicken stench a reek that take fierce hold of the trap of your windpipe and shut it. the powder then hiss and fizz and send out blue and green spark and the smoke rise till you could neither see nor breathe nor gasp. mellish however be use to it. 
nitrate of strontia he shout. baryta bone meal etcetera. thousand cubic foot smoke per cubic inch. not a germ could live not a germ y excellency. 
but his excellency have flee and be cough at the foot of the stair while all peterhoff hum like a hive. red lancer come in and the head chaprassi who speak english come in and mace bearer come in and lady run downstairs scream fire. for the smoke be drift through the house and ooze out of the window and belly along the verandah and wreathe and writhe across the garden. no one could enter the room where mellish be lecture on his fumigatory till that unspeakable powder have burn itself out. 
then an aide de camp who desire the v. c. rush through the roll cloud and haul mellish into the hall. the viceroy be prostrate with laughter and could only waggle his hand feebly at mellish who be shake a fresh bagful of powder at him. 
glorious. glorious. sob his excellency. not a germ a you justly observe could exist. i can swear it. a magnificent success. 
then he laugh till the tear come and wonder who have catch the real mellishe snort on the mall enter and be deeply shock at the scene. but the viceroy be delight because he saw that wonder would presently depart. mellish with the fumigatory be also please for he felt that he have smash the simla medical ring. 

few men could tell a story like his excellency when he take the trouble and the account of my dear good wonder s friend with the powder go the round of simla and flippant folk make wonder unhappy by their remark. 
but his excellency tell the tale once too often for wonder. a he mean to do. it be at a seepee picnic. wonder be sit just behind the viceroy. 
and i really think for a moment wind up his excellency that my dear good wonder have hire an assassin to clear his way to the throne. 
every one laugh. but there be a delicate subtinkle in the viceroy s tone which wonder understand. he find that his health be give way. and the viceroy allow him to go and present him with a flame character for use at home among big people. 
my fault entirely say his excellency in after season with a twinkle in his eye. my inconsistency must always have be distasteful to such a masterly man. 
kidnap. 
there be a tide in the affair of men which take any way you please be bad and strand them in forsake gut and creek no decent soul would think of visit. you cannot stop the tide. but now and then you may arrest some rash adventurer who h m will hardly thank you for your pain. 
vibart s morality. 
we be a high caste and enlighten race and infant marriage be very shock and the consequence be sometimes peculiar. but nevertheless the hindu notion which be the continental notion which be the aboriginal notion of arrange marriage irrespective of the personal inclination of the marry be sound. think for a minute and you will see that it must be so. unless of course you believe in affinity. in which case you have good not read this tale. how can a man who ha never marry. who cannot be trust to pick up at sight a moderately sound horse. whose head be hot and upset with vision of domestic felicity go about the choose of a wife. he cannot see straight or think straight if he try. and the same disadvantage exist in the case of a girl s fancy. but when mature marry and discreet people arrange a match between a boy and a girl they do it sensibly with a view to the future and the young couple live happily ever afterwards. a everybody know. 
properly speak government should establish a matrimonial department efficiently officer with a jury of matron a judge of the chief court a senior chaplain and an awful warn in the shape of a love match that ha go wrong chain to the tree in the courtyard. all marriage should be make through the department which might be subordinate to the educational department under the same penalty a that attach to the transfer of land without a stamp document. but government win t take suggestion. it pretend that it be too busy. however i will put my notion on record and explain the example that illustrate the theory. 
once upon a time there be a good young man a first class officer in his own department a man with a career before him and possibly a k. c. g. e. at the end of it. all his superior speak well of him because he know how to hold his tongue and his pen at the proper time. there be to day only eleven men in india who posse this secret. and they have all with one exception attain great honor and enormous income. 
this good young man be quiet and self contain too old for his year by far. which always carry it own punishment. have a subaltern or a tea planter s assistant or anybody who enjoy life and ha no care for to morrow do what he try to do not a soul would have care. but when peythroppe the estimable virtuous economical quiet hard work young peythroppe fell there be a flutter through five department. 
the manner of his fall be in this way. he meet a miss castries d castries it be originally but the family drop the d for administrative reason and he fell in love with her even more energetically that he work. understand clearly that there be not a breath of a word to be say against miss castries not a shadow of a breath. she be good and very lovely possess what innocent people at home call a spanish complexion with thick blue black hair grow low down on her forehead into a widow s peak and big violet eye under eyebrow a black and a straight a the border of a gazette extraordinary when a big man dy. but but but. well she be a very sweet girl and very pious but for many reason she be impossible. quite so. all good mamma know what impossible mean. it be obviously absurd that peythroppe should marry her. the little opal tint onyx at the base of her finger nail say this a plainly a print. further marriage with miss castries mean marriage with several other castries honorary lieutenant castries her papa mr. eulalie castries her mamma and all the ramification of the castries family on income range from r. to r. a month and their wife and connection again. 
it would have be cheap for peythroppe to have assault a commissioner with a dog whip or to have burn the record of a deputy commissioner s office than to have contract an alliance with the castries. it would have weight his after career le even under a government which never forget and never forgive. everybody saw this but peythroppe. he be go to marry miss castries he be be of age and draw a good income and woe betide the house that would not afterwards receive mr. virginie saulez peythroppe with the deference due to her husband s rank. that be peythroppe s ultimatum and any remonstrance drive him frantic. 
these sudden madness most afflict the sane men. there be a case once but i will tell you of that late on. you cannot account for the mania except under a theory directly contradict the one about the place wherein marriage be make. peythroppe be burningly anxious to put a millstone round his neck at the outset of his career and argument have not the least effect on him. he be go to marry miss castries and the business be his own business. he would thank you to keep your advice to yourself. with a man in this condition mere word only fix him in his purpose. of course he cannot see that marriage out here doe not concern the individual but the government he serf. 
do you remember mr. hauksbee the most wonderful woman in india. she save pluffles from mr. reiver win tarrion his appointment in the foreign office and be defeat in open field by mr. cusack bremmil. she hear of the lamentable condition of peythroppe and her brain strike out the plan that save him. she have the wisdom of the serpent the logical coherence of the man the fearlessness of the child and the triple intuition of the woman. never no never a long a a tonga bucket down the solon dip or the couple go a rid at the back of summer hill will there be such a genius a mr. hauksbee. she attend the consultation of three men on peythroppe s case. and she stand up with the lash of her rid whip between her lip and spake. 

three week late peythroppe din with the three men and the gazette of india come in. peythroppe find to his surprise that he have be gazette a month s leave. don t ask me how this be manage. i believe firmly that if mr. hauksbee give the order the whole great indian administration would stand on it head. 
the three men have also a month s leave each. peythroppe put the gazette down and say bad word. then there come from the compound the soft pad pad of camel thief camel the bikaneer breed that don t bubble and howl when they sit down and get up. 
after that i don t know what happen. this much be certain. peythroppe disappear vanish like smoke and the long foot rest chair in the house of the three men be break to splinter. also a bedstead depart from one of the bedroom. 
mr. hauksbee say that mr. peythroppe be shoot in rajputana with the three men. so we be compel to believe her. 
at the end of the month peythroppe be gazette twenty day extension of leave. but there be wrath and lamentation in the house of castries. the marriage day have be fix but the bridegroom never come. and the d silva pereiras and ducketts lift their voice and mock honorary lieutenant castries a one who have be basely impose upon. mr. hauksbee go to the wed and be much astonish when peythroppe do not appear. after seven week peythroppe and the three men return from rajputana. peythroppe be in hard tough condition rather white and more self contain than ever. 
one of the three men have a cut on his nose cause by the kick of a gun. twelve bore kick rather curiously. 
then come honorary lieutenant castries seek for the blood of his perfidious son in law to be. he say thing vulgar and impossible thing which show the raw rough ranker below the honorary and i fancy peythroppe s eye be open. anyhow he hold his peace till the end. when he speak briefly. honorary lieutenant castries ask for a peg before he go away to die or bring a suit for breach of promise. 
miss castries be a very good girl. she say that she would have no breach of promise suit. she say that if she be not a lady she be refine enough to know that lady keep their break heart to themselves. and a she rule her parent nothing happen. late on she marry a most respectable and gentlemanly person. he travel for an enterprising firm in calcutta and be all that a good husband should be. 
so peythroppe come to his right mind again and do much good work and be honor by all who know him. one of these day he will marry. but he will marry a sweet pink and white maiden on the government house list with a little money and some influential connection a every wise man should. and he will never all his life tell her what happen during the seven week of his shoot tour in rajputana. 
but just think how much trouble and expense for camel hire be not cheap and those bikaneer brute have to be feed like human might have be save by a properly conduct matrimonial department under the control of the director general of education but correspond direct with the viceroy. 
the arrest of lieutenant golightly. 
i ve forget the countersign sez e. oh. you aye ave you. sez i. but i m the colonel sez e. oh. you be be you. sez i. colonel nor no colonel you wait ere till i m relieve an the sarjint report on your ugly old mug. coop. sez i. an s help me soul twas the colonel after all. but i be a recruity then. 
the unedited autobiography of private ortheris. 
if there be one thing on which golightly pride himself more than another it be look like an officer and a gentleman. he say it be for the honor of the service that he attire himself so elaborately. but those who know him best say that it be just personal vanity. there be no harm about golightly not an ounce. he recognize a horse when he saw one and could do more than fill a cantle. he play a very fair game at billiards and be a sound man at the whist table. everyone like him. and nobody ever dream of see him handcuff on a station platform a a deserter. but this sad thing happen. 
he be go down from dalhousie at the end of his leave rid down. he have cut his leave a fine a he dare and want to come down in a hurry. 
it be fairly warm at dalhousie and know what to expect below he descend in a new khaki suit tight fit of a delicate olive green. a peacock blue tie white collar and a snowy white solah helmet. he pride himself on look neat even when he be rid post. he do look neat and he be so deeply concern about his appearance before he start that he quite forget to take anything but some small change with him. he leave all his note at the hotel. his servant have go down the road before him to be ready in wait at pathankote with a change of gear. that be what he call travel in light march order. he be proud of his faculty of organization what we call bundobust. 
twenty two mile out of dalhousie it begin to rain not a mere hill shower but a good tepid monsoonish downpour. golightly bustle on wish that he have bring an umbrella. the dust on the road turn into mud and the pony mire a good deal. so do golightly s khaki gaiter. but he keep on steadily and try to think how pleasant the coolth be. 
his next pony be rather a brute at start and golightly s hand be slippery with the rain contrive to get rid of golightly at a corner. he chase the animal catch it and go ahead briskly. the spill have not improve his clothe or his temper and he have lose one spur. he keep the other one employ. by the time that stage be end the pony have have a much exercise a he want and in spite of the rain golightly be sweat freely. at the end of another miserable half hour golightly find the world disappear before his eye in clammy pulp. the rain have turn the pith of his huge and snowy solah topee into an evil smell dough and it have close on his head like a half open mushroom. also the green line be begin to run. 
golightly do not say anything worth record here. he tear off and squeeze up a much of the brim a be in his eye and plough on. the back of the helmet be flap on his neck and the side stick to his ear but the leather band and green line keep thing roughly together so that the hat do not actually melt away where it flap. 
presently the pulp and the green stuff make a sort of slimy mildew which run over golightly in several direction down his back and bosom for choice. the khaki color run too it be really shockingly bad dye and section of golightly be brown and patch be violet and contour be ochre and streak be ruddy red and blotch be nearly white accord to the nature and peculiarity of the dye. when he take out his handkerchief to wipe his face and the green of the hat line and the purple stuff that have soak through on to his neck from the tie become thoroughly mix the effect be amaze. 
near dhar the rain stop and the even sun come out and dry him up slightly. it fix the color too. three mile from pathankote the last pony fell dead lame and golightly be force to walk. he push on into pathankote to find his servant. he do not know then that his khitmatgar have stop by the roadside to get drink and would come on the next day say that he have sprain his ankle. when he get into pathankote he couldn t find his servant his boot be stiff and ropy with mud and there be large quantity of dirt about his body. the blue tie have run a much a the khaki. so he take it off with the collar and throw it away. then he say something about servant generally and try to get a peg. he pay eight anna for the drink and this reveal to him that he have only six anna more in his pocket or in the world a he stand at that hour. 
he go to the station master to negotiate for a first class ticket to khasa where he be station. the book clerk say something to the station master the station master say something to the telegraph clerk and the three look at him with curiosity. they ask him to wait for half an hour while they telegraph to umritsar for authority. so he wait and four constable come and group themselves picturesquely round him. just a he be prepare to ask them to go away the station master say that he would give the sahib a ticket to umritsar if the sahib would kindly come inside the book office. golightly step inside and the next thing he know be that a constable be attach to each of his leg and arm while the station master be try to cram a mailbag over his head. 
there be a very fair scuffle all round the book office and golightly receive a nasty cut over his eye through fall against a table. but the constable be too much for him and they and the station master handcuff him securely. a soon a the mail bag be slip he begin express his opinion and the head constable say. without doubt this be the soldier englishman we require. listen to the abuse. then golightly ask the station master what the this and the that the proceeding mean. the station master tell him he be private john binkle of the regiment ft. in. fair hair gray eye and a dissipate appearance no mark on the body who have desert a fortnight ago. golightly begin explain at great length. and the more he explain the le the station master believe him. he say that no lieutenant could look such a ruffian a do golightly and that his instruction be to send his capture under proper escort to umritsar. golightly be feel very damp and uncomfortable and the language he use be not fit for publication even in an expurgate form. the four constable saw him safe to umritsar in an intermediate compartment and he spend the four hour journey in abuse them a fluently a his knowledge of the vernacular allow. 
at umritsar he be bundle out on the platform into the arm of a corporal and two men of the regiment. golightly draw himself up and try to carry off matter jauntily. he do not feel too jaunty in handcuff with four constable behind him and the blood from the cut on his forehead stiffen on his leave cheek. the corporal be not jocular either. golightly get a far a this be a very absurd mistake my men when the corporal tell him to stow his lip and come along. golightly do not want to come along. he desire to stop and explain. he explain very well indeed until the corporal cut in with. you a orficer. it s the like o you a bring disgrace on the like of u. bloom in fine orficer you be. i know your regiment. the rogue s march be the quickstep where you come from. you re a black shame to the service. 
golightly keep his temper and begin explain all over again from the begin. then he be march out of the rain into the refreshment room and tell not to make a qualify fool of himself. the men be go to run him up to fort govindghar. and run up be a performance almost a undignified a the frog march. 
golightly be nearly hysterical with rage and the chill and the mistake and the handcuff and the headache that the cut on his forehead have give him. he really lay himself out to express what be in his mind. when he have quite finish and his throat be feel dry one of the men say. i ve eard a few beggar in the click blind stiff and crack on a bite. but i ve never eard any one to touch this ere orficer. they be not angry with him. they rather admire him. they have some beer at the refreshment room and offer golightly some too because he have swear win erful. they ask him to tell them all about the adventure of private john binkle while he be loose on the countryside. and that make golightly wild than ever. if he have keep his wit about him he would have keep quiet until an officer come. but he attempt to run. 
now the butt of a martini in the small of your back hurt a great deal and rotten rain soak khaki tear easily when two men be jerk at your collar. 
golightly rise from the floor feel very sick and giddy with his shirt rip open all down his breast and nearly all down his back. he yield to his luck and at that point the down train from lahore come in carry one of golightly s major. 
this be the major s evidence in full. 
there be the sound of a scuffle in the second class refreshment room so i go in and saw the most villainous loafer that i ever set eye on. his boot and breech be plaster with mud and beer stain. he wear a muddy white dunghill sort of thing on his head and it hang down in slip on his shoulder which be a good deal scratch. he be half in and half out of a shirt a nearly in two piece a it could be and he be beg the guard to look at the name on the tail of it. a he have ruck the shirt all over his head i couldn t at first see who he be but i fancy that he be a man in the first stage of d. t. from the way he swear while he wrestle with his rag. when he turn round and i have make allowance for a lump a big a a pork pie over one eye and some green war paint on the face and some violet stripe round the neck i saw that it be golightly. he be very glad to see me say the major and he hop i would not tell the mess about it. i didn t but you can if you like now that golightly ha go home. 
golightly spend the great part of that summer in try to get the corporal and the two soldier try by court martial for arrest an officer and a gentleman. they be of course very sorry for their error. but the tale leak into the regimental canteen and thence run about the province. 
the house of suddhoo. 
a stone s throw out on either hand from that well order road we tread and all the world be wild and strange. churel and ghoul and djinn and sprite shall bear u company to night for we have reach the old land wherein the power of darkness range. 
from the dusk to the dawn. 
the house of suddhoo near the taksali gate be two storied with four carve window of old brown wood and a flat roof. you may recognize it by five red hand print arrange like the five of diamond on the whitewash between the upper window. bhagwan das the bunnia and a man who say he get his live by seal cut live in the low story with a troop of wife servant friend and retainer. the two upper room use to be occupy by janoo and azizun and a little black and tan terrier that be steal from an englishman s house and give to janoo by a soldier. to day only janoo life in the upper room. suddhoo sleep on the roof generally except when he sleep in the street. he use to go to peshawar in the cold weather to visit his son who sell curiosity near the edwardes gate and then he sleep under a real mud roof. suddhoo be a great friend of mine because his cousin have a son who secure thank to my recommendation the post of head messenger to a big firm in the station. suddhoo say that god will make me a lieutenant governor one of these day. i daresay his prophecy will come true. he be very very old with white hair and no teeth worth show and he ha outlive his wit outlive nearly everything except his fondness for his son at peshawar. janoo and azizun be kashmiri lady of the city and theirs be an ancient and more or le honorable profession. but azizun ha since marry a medical student from the north west and ha settle down to a most respectable life somewhere near bareilly. bhagwan das be an extortionate and an adulterator. he be very rich. the man who be suppose to get his live by seal cut pretend to be very poor. this let you know a much a be necessary of the four principal tenant in the house of suddhoo. then there be me of course. but i be only the chorus that come in at the end to explain thing. so i do not count. 
suddhoo be not clever. the man who pretend to cut seal be the clever of them all bhagwan das only know how to lie except janoo. she be also beautiful but that be her own affair. 
suddhoo s son at peshawar be attack by pleurisy and old suddhoo be trouble. the seal cutter man hear of suddhoo s anxiety and make capital out of it. he be abreast of the time. he get a friend in peshawar to telegraph daily account of the son s health. and here the story begin. 
suddhoo s cousin s son tell me one even that suddhoo want to see me. that he be too old and feeble to come personally and that i should be confer an everlasting honor on the house of suddhoo if i go to him. i go. but i think see how well off suddhoo be then that he might have send something good than an ekka which jolt fearfully to haul out a future lieutenant governor to the city on a muggy april even. the ekka do not run quickly. it be full dark when we pull up opposite the door of ranjit singh s tomb near the main gate of the fort. here be suddhoo and he say that by reason of my condescension it be absolutely certain that i should become a lieutenant governor while my hair be yet black. then we talk about the weather and the state of my health and the wheat crop for fifteen minute in the huzuri bagh under the star. 
suddhoo come to the point at last. he say that janoo have tell him that there be an order of the sirkar against magic because it be fear that magic might one day kill the empress of india. i didn t know anything about the state of the law. but i fancy that something interest be go to happen. i say that so far from magic be discourage by the government it be highly commend. the great official of the state practice it themselves. if the financial statement isn t magic i don t know what be. then to encourage him further i say that if there be any jadoo afoot i have not the least objection to give it my countenance and sanction and to see that it be clean jadoo white magic a distinguish from the unclean jadoo which kill folk. it take a long time before suddhoo admit that this be just what he have ask me to come for. then he tell me in jerk and quaver that the man who say he cut seal be a sorcerer of the clean kind. that every day he give suddhoo news of the sick son in peshawar more quickly than the lightning could fly and that this news be always corroborate by the letter. further that he have tell suddhoo how a great danger be threaten his son which could be remove by clean jadoo. and of course heavy payment. i begin to see how the land lay and tell suddhoo that i also understand a little jadoo in the western line and would go to his house to see that everything be do decently and in order. we set off together. and on the way suddhoo tell me he have pay the seal cutter between one hundred and two hundred rupee already. and the jadoo of that night would cost two hundred more. which be cheap he say consider the greatness of his son s danger. but i do not think he mean it. 
the light be all cloak in the front of the house when we arrive. i could hear awful noise from behind the seal cutter s shop front a if some one be groan his soul out. suddhoo shake all over and while we grope our way upstairs tell me that the jadoo have begin. janoo and azizun meet u at the stair head and tell u that the jadoo work be come off in their room because there be more space there. janoo be a lady of a freethinking turn of mind. she whisper that the jadoo be an invention to get money out of suddhoo and that the seal cutter would go to a hot place when he die. suddhoo be nearly cry with fear and old age. he keep walk up and down the room in the half light repeat his son s name over and over again and ask azizun if the seal cutter ought not to make a reduction in the case of his own landlord. janoo pull me over to the shadow in the recess of the carve bow window. the board be up and the room be only light by one tiny lamp. there be no chance of my be see if i stay still. 
presently the groan below cease and we hear step on the staircase. that be the seal cutter. he stop outside the door a the terrier bark and azizun fumble at the chain and he tell suddhoo to blow out the lamp. this leave the place in jet darkness except for the red glow from the two huqas that belong to janoo and azizun. the seal cutter come in and i hear suddhoo throw himself down on the floor and groan. azizun catch her breath and janoo back to one of the bed with a shudder. there be a clink of something metallic and then shoot up a pale blue green flame near the grind. the light be just enough to show azizun press against one corner of the room with the terrier between her knee. janoo with her hand clasp lean forward a she sit on the bed. suddhoo face down quiver and the seal cutter. 
i hope i may never see another man like that seal cutter. he be strip to the waist with a wreath of white jasmine a thick a my wrist round his forehead a salmon color loin cloth round his middle and a steel bangle on each ankle. this be not awe inspire. it be the face of the man that turn me cold. it be blue gray in the first place. in the second the eye be roll back till you could only see the white of them. and in the third the face be the face of a demon a ghoul anything you please except of the sleek oily old ruffian who sit in the day time over his turn lathe downstairs. he be lie on his stomach with his arm turn and cross behind him a if he have be throw down pinion. his head and neck be the only part of him off the floor. they be nearly at right angle to the body like the head of a cobra at spring. it be ghastly. in the centre of the room on the bare earth floor stand a big deep brass basin with a pale blue green light float in the centre like a night light. round that basin the man on the floor wriggle himself three time. how he do it i do not know. i could see the muscle ripple along his spine and fall smooth again. but i could not see any other motion. the head seem the only thing alive about him except that slow curl and uncurl of the labor back muscle. janoo from the bed be breathe seventy to the minute. azizun hold her hand before her eye. and old suddhoo finger at the dirt that have get into his white beard be cry to himself. the horror of it be that the creep crawly thing make no sound only crawl. and remember this last for ten minute while the terrier whine and azizun shudder and janoo gasp and suddhoo cry. 
i felt the hair lift at the back of my head and my heart thump like a thermantidote paddle. luckily the seal cutter betray himself by his most impressive trick and make me calm again. after he have finish that unspeakable triple crawl he stretch his head away from the floor a high a he could and send out a jet of fire from his nostril. now i know how fire spout be do i can do it myself so i felt at ease. the business be a fraud. if he have only keep to that crawl without try to raise the effect goodness know what i might not have think. both the girl shriek at the jet of fire and the head drop chin down on the floor with a thud. the whole body lie then like a corpse with it arm truss. there be a pause of five full minute after this and the blue green flame die down. janoo stoop to settle one of her anklet while azizun turn her face to the wall and take the terrier in her arm. suddhoo put out an arm mechanically to janoo s huqa and she slide it across the floor with her foot. directly above the body and on the wall be a couple of flame portrait in stamp paper frame of the queen and the prince of wale. they look down on the performance and to my think seem to heighten the grotesqueness of it all. 
just when the silence be get unendurable the body turn over and roll away from the basin to the side of the room where it lay stomach up. there be a faint plop from the basin exactly like the noise a fish make when it take a fly and the green light in the centre revive. 
i look at the basin and saw bob in the water the dry shrivel black head of a native baby open eye open mouth and shave scalp. it be bad be so very sudden than the crawl exhibition. we have no time to say anything before it begin to speak. 
read poe s account of the voice that come from the mesmerize die man and you will realize le than one half of the horror of that head s voice. 
there be an interval of a second or two between each word and a sort of ring ring ring in the note of the voice like the timbre of a bell. it peal slowly a if talk to itself for several minute before i get rid of my cold sweat. then the bless solution strike me. i look at the body lie near the doorway and saw just where the hollow of the throat join on the shoulder a muscle that have nothing to do with any man s regular breathe twitch away steadily. the whole thing be a careful reproduction of the egyptian teraphin that one read about sometimes and the voice be a clever and a appal a piece of ventriloquism a one could wish to hear. all this time the head be lip lip lap against the side of the basin and speak. it tell suddhoo on his face again whine of his son s illness and of the state of the illness up to the even of that very night. i always shall respect the seal cutter for keep so faithfully to the time of the peshawar telegram. it go on to say that skilled doctor be night and day watch over the man s life. and that he would eventually recover if the fee to the potent sorcerer whose servant be the head in the basin be double. 
here the mistake from the artistic point of view come in. to ask for twice your stipulate fee in a voice that lazarus might have use when he rise from the dead be absurd. janoo who be really a woman of masculine intellect saw this a quickly a i do. i hear her say asli nahin. fareib. scornfully under her breath. and just a she say so the light in the basin die out the head stop talk and we hear the room door creak on it hinge. then janoo strike a match light the lamp and we saw that head basin and seal cutter be go. suddhoo be wring his hand and explain to any one who care to listen that if his chance of eternal salvation depend on it he could not raise another two hundred rupee. azizun be nearly in hysteric in the corner. while janoo sit down composedly on one of the bed to discus the probability of the whole thing be a bunao or make up. 
i explain a much a i know of the seal cutter s way of jadoo. but her argument be much more simple. the magic that be always demand gift be no true magic say she. my mother tell me that the only potent love spell be those which be tell you for love. this seal cutter man be a liar and a devil. i dare not tell do anything or get anything do because i be in debt to bhagwan das the bunnia for two gold ring and a heavy anklet. i must get my food from his shop. the seal cutter be the friend of bhagwan das and he would poison my food. a fool s jadoo ha be go on for ten day and ha cost suddhoo many rupee each night. the seal cutter use black hen and lemon and mantra before. he never show u anything like this till to night. azizun be a fool and will be a pur dahnashin soon. suddhoo ha lose his strength and his wit. see now. i have hop to get from suddhoo many rupee while he live and many more after his death. and behold he be spend everything on that offspring of a devil and a she as the seal cutter. 
here i say. but what induce suddhoo to drag me into the business. of course i can speak to the seal cutter and he shall refund. the whole thing be child s talk shame and senseless. 
suddhoo be an old child say janoo. he ha live on the roof these seventy year and be a senseless a a milch goat. he bring you here to assure himself that he be not break any law of the sirkar whose salt he eat many year ago. he worship the dust off the foot of the seal cutter and that cow devourer ha forbid him to go and see his son. what doe suddhoo know of your law or the lightning post. i have to watch his money go day by day to that lie beast below. 
janoo stamp her foot on the floor and nearly cry with vexation. while suddhoo be whimper under a blanket in the corner and azizun be try to guide the pipe stem to his foolish old mouth. 

now the case stand thus. unthinkingly i have lay myself open to the charge of aid and abet the seal cutter in obtain money under false pretence which be forbid by section of the indian penal code. i be helpless in the matter for these reason i cannot inform the police. what witness would support my statement. janoo refuse flatly azizun be a veil woman somewhere near bareilly lose in this big india of ours. i cannot again take the law into my own hand and speak to the seal cutter. for certain be i that not only would suddhoo disbelieve me but this step would end in the poison of janoo who be bind hand and foot by her debt to the bunnia. suddhoo be an old dotard. and whenever we meet mumble my idiotic joke that the sirkar rather patronize the black art than otherwise. his son be well now. but suddhoo be completely under the influence of the seal cutter by whose advice he regulate the affair of his life. janoo watch daily the money that she hop to wheedle out of suddhoo take by the seal cutter and become daily more furious and sullen. 
she will never tell because she dare not. but unless something happen to prevent her i be afraid that the seal cutter will die of cholera the white arsenic kind about the middle of may. and thus i shall have to be privy to a murder in the house of suddhoo. 
his wed wife. 
cry murder. in the market place and each will turn upon his neighbor anxious eye that ask. art thou the man. we hunt cain some century ago across the world that breed the fear our own misdeed maintain to day. 
vibart s morality. 
shakespeare say something about worm or it may be giant or beetle turn if you tread on them too severely. the safe plan be never to tread on a worm not even on the last new subaltern from home with his button hardly out of their tissue paper and the red of sappy english beef in his cheek. this be the story of the worm that turn. for the sake of brevity we will call henry augustus ramsay faizanne the worm although he really be an exceedingly pretty boy without a hair on his face and with a waist like a girl s when he come out to the second shikarris and be make unhappy in several way. the shikarris be a high caste regiment and you must be able to do thing well play a banjo or ride more than a little or sing or act to get on with them. 
the worm do nothing except fall off his pony and knock chip out of gate post with his trap. even that become monotonous after a time. he object to whist cut the cloth at billiards sing out of tune keep very much to himself and write to his mamma and sister at home. four of these five thing be vice which the shikarris object to and set themselves to eradicate. every one know how subaltern be by brother subaltern soften and not permit to be ferocious. it be good and wholesome and doe no one any harm unless temper be lose. and then there be trouble. there be a man once but that be another story. 
the shikarris shikarred the worm very much and he bore everything without wink. he be so good and so anxious to learn and flush so pink that his education be cut short and he be leave to his own device by every one except the senior subaltern who continue to make life a burden to the worm. the senior subaltern mean no harm. but his chaff be coarse and he didn t quite understand where to stop. he have be wait too long for his company. and that always sour a man. also he be in love which make him bad. 
one day after he have borrow the worm s trap for a lady who never exist have use it himself all the afternoon have send a note to the worm purport to come from the lady and be tell the mess all about it the worm rise in his place and say in his quiet ladylike voice. that be a very pretty sell. but i ll lay you a month s pay to a month s pay when you get your step that i work a sell on you that you ll remember for the rest of your day and the regiment after you when you re dead or break. the worm wasn t angry in the least and the rest of the mess shout. then the senior subaltern look at the worm from the boot upwards and down again and say do baby. the worm take the rest of the mess to witness that the bet have be take and retire into a book with a sweet smile. 
two month pass and the senior subaltern still educate the worm who begin to move about a little more a the hot weather come on. i have say that the senior subaltern be in love. the curious thing be that a girl be in love with the senior subaltern. though the colonel say awful thing and the major snort and marry captain look unutterable wisdom and the junior scoff those two be engage. 
the senior subaltern be so please with get his company and his acceptance at the same time that he forget to bother the worm. the girl be a pretty girl and have money of her own. she doe not come into this story at all. 
one night at the begin of the hot weather all the mess except the worm who have go to his own room to write home letter be sit on the platform outside the mess house. the band have finish play but no one want to go in. and the captain wife be there also. the folly of a man in love be unlimited. the senior subaltern have be hold forth on the merit of the girl he be engage to and the lady be purr approval while the men yawn when there be a rustle of skirt in the dark and a tire faint voice lift itself. 
where s my husband. 
i do not wish in the least to reflect on the morality of the shikarris. but it be on record that four men jump up a if they have be shoot. three of them be marry men. perhaps they be afraid that their wife have come from home unbeknownst. the fourth say that he have act on the impulse of the moment. he explain this afterwards. 
then the voice cry. oh lionel. lionel be the senior subaltern s name. a woman come into the little circle of light by the candle on the peg table stretch out her hand to the dark where the senior subaltern be and sob. we rise to our foot feel that thing be go to happen and ready to believe the bad. in this bad small world of ours one know so little of the life of the next man which after all be entirely his own concern that one be not surprise when a crash come. anything might turn up any day for any one. perhaps the senior subaltern have be trap in his youth. men be cripple that way occasionally. we didn t know. we want to hear. and the captain wife be a anxious a we. if he have be trap he be to be excuse. for the woman from nowhere in the dusty shoe and gray travel dress be very lovely with black hair and great eye full of tear. she be tall with a fine figure and her voice have a run sob in it pitiful to hear. a soon a the senior subaltern stand up she throw her arm round his neck and call him my darling and say she could not bear wait alone in england and his letter be so short and cold and she be his to the end of the world and would he forgive her. this do not sound quite like a lady s way of speak. it be too demonstrative. 
thing seem black indeed and the captain wife peer under their eyebrow at the senior subaltern and the colonel s face set like the day of judgment frame in gray bristle and no one speak for a while. 
next the colonel say very shortly. well sir. and the woman sob afresh. the senior subaltern be half choke with the arm round his neck but he gasp out. it s a d d lie. i never have a wife in my life. don t swear say the colonel. come into the mess. we must sift this clear somehow and he sigh to himself for he believe in his shikarris do the colonel. 
we troop into the ante room under the full light and there we saw how beautiful the woman be. she stand up in the middle of u all sometimes choke with cry then hard and proud and then hold out her arm to the senior subaltern. it be like the fourth act of a tragedy. she tell u how the senior subaltern have marry her when he be home on leave eighteen month before. and she seem to know all that we know and more too of his people and his past life. he be white and ashy gray try now and again to break into the torrent of her word. and we note how lovely she be and what a criminal he look esteem him a beast of the bad kind. we felt sorry for him though. 
i shall never forget the indictment of the senior subaltern by his wife. nor will he. it be so sudden rush out of the dark unannounced into our dull life. the captain wife stand back. but their eye be alight and you could see that they have already convict and sentence the senior subaltern. the colonel seem five year old. one major be shade his eye with his hand and watch the woman from underneath it. another be chew his moustache and smile quietly a if he be witness a play. full in the open space in the centre by the whist table the senior subaltern s terrier be hunt for flea. i remember all this a clearly a though a photograph be in my hand. i remember the look of horror on the senior subaltern s face. it be rather like see a man hang. but much more interest. finally the woman wind up by say that the senior subaltern carry a double f. m. in tattoo on his leave shoulder. we all know that and to our innocent mind it seem to clinch the matter. but one of the bachelor major say very politely. i presume that your marriage certificate would be more to the purpose. 
that rouse the woman. she stand up and sneer at the senior subaltern for a cur and abuse the major and the colonel and all the rest. then she weep and then she pull a paper from her breast say imperially. take that. and let my husband my lawfully wed husband read it aloud if he dare. 
there be a hush and the men look into each other s eye a the senior subaltern come forward in a daze and dizzy way and take the paper. we be wonder a we star whether there be anything against any one of u that might turn up late on. the senior subaltern s throat be dry. but a he run his eye over the paper he break out into a hoarse cackle of relief and say to the woman. you young blackguard. 
but the woman have flee through a door and on the paper be write. this be to certify that i the worm have pay in full my debt to the senior subaltern and further that the senior subaltern be my debtor by agreement on the d of february a by the mess attest to the extent of one month s captain s pay in the lawful currency of the india empire. 
then a deputation set off for the worm s quarter and find him betwixt and between unlace his stay with the hat wig serge dress etc. on the bed. he come over a he be and the shikarris shout till the gunner mess send over to know if they might have a share of the fun. i think we be all except the colonel and the senior subaltern a little disappoint that the scandal have come to nothing. but that be human nature. there could be no two word about the worm s act. it lean a near to a nasty tragedy a anything this side of a joke can. when most of the subaltern sit upon him with sofa cushion to find out why he have not say that act be his strong point he answer very quietly. i don t think you ever ask me. i use to act at home with my sister. but no act with girl could account for the worm s display that night. personally i think it be in bad taste. besides be dangerous. there be no sort of use in play with fire even for fun. 
the shikarris make him president of the regimental dramatic club. and when the senior subaltern pay up his debt which he do at once the worm sink the money in scenery and dress. he be a good worm. and the shikarris be proud of him. the only drawback be that he ha be christen mr. senior subaltern. and a there be now two mr. senior subaltern in the station this be sometimes confuse to stranger. 
late on i will tell you of a case something like this but with all the jest leave out and nothing in it but real trouble. 
the break link handicap. 
while the snaffle hold or the long neck sting while the big beam tilt or the last bell ring while horse be horse to train and to race then woman and wine take a second place for me for me while a short ten three ha a field to squander or fence to face. 
song of the g. r. 
there be more way of run a horse to suit your book than pull his head off in the straight. some men forget this. understand clearly that all race be rotten a everything connect with lose money must be. out here in addition to it inherent rottenness it ha the merit of be two third sham. look pretty on paper only. every one know every one else far too well for business purpose. how on earth can you rack and harry and post a man for his lose when you be fond of his wife and live in the same station with him. he say on the monday follow i can t settle just yet. you say all right old man and think your self lucky if you pull off nine hundred out of a two thousand rupee debt. any way you look at it indian race be immoral and expensively immoral. which be much bad. if a man want your money he ought to ask for it or send round a subscription list instead of juggle about the country with an australian larrikin. a brumby with a much breed a the boy. a brace of chumars in gold lace cap. three or four ekka pony with hog mane and a switch tail demirep of a mare call arab because she ha a kink in her flag. race lead to the shroff quick than anything else. but if you have no conscience and no sentiment and good hand and some knowledge of pace and ten year experience of horse and several thousand rupee a month i believe that you can occasionally contrive to pay your shoe bill. 
do you ever know shackle b. w. g. coarse loose mule like ear barrel a long a a gate post tough a a telegraph wire and the queer brute that ever look through a bridle. he be of no brand be one of an ear nick mob take into the bucephalus at l. s. a head to make up freight and sell raw and out of condition at calcutta for r. people who lose money on him call him a brumby. but if ever any horse have harpoon s shoulder and the gin s temper shackle be that horse. two mile be his own particular distance. he train himself run himself and ride himself. and if his jockey insult him by give him hint he shut up at once and buck the boy off. he object to dictation. two or three of his owner do not understand this and lose money in consequence. at last he be buy by a man who discover that if a race be to be win shackle and shackle only would win it in his own way so long a his jockey sit still. this man have a rid boy call brunt a lad from perth west australia and he teach brunt with a trainer s whip the hard thing a jock can learn to sit still to sit still and to keep on sit still. when brunt fairly grasp this truth shackle devastate the country. no weight could stop him at his own distance. and the fame of shackle spread from ajmir in the south to chedputter in the north. there be no horse like shackle so long a he be allow to do his work in his own way. but he be beat in the end. and the story of his fall be enough to make angel weep. 
at the low end of the chedputter racecourse just before the turn into the straight the track pass close to a couple of old brick mound enclose a funnel shape hollow. the big end of the funnel be not six foot from the railing on the off side. the astound peculiarity of the course be that if you stand at one particular place about half a mile away inside the course and speak at an ordinary pitch your voice just hit the funnel of the brick mound and make a curious whine echo there. a man discover this one morning by accident while out train with a friend. he mark the place to stand and speak from with a couple of brick and he keep his knowledge to himself. every peculiarity of a course be worth remember in a country where rat play the mischief with the elephant litter and steward build jump to suit their own stable. this man run a very fairish country breed a long rack high mare with the temper of a fiend and the pace of an airy wander seraph a drifty glidy stretch. the mare be a a delicate tribute to mr. reiver call the lady regula baddun or for short regula baddun. 
shackle jockey brunt be a quiet well behave boy but his nerve have be shake. he begin his career by rid jump race in melbourne where a few steward want lynch and be one of the jockey who come through the awful butchery perhaps you will recollect it of the maribyrnong plate. the wall be colonial rampart log of jarrak spike into masonry with wing a strong a church buttress. once in his stride a horse have to jump or fall. he couldn t run out. in the maribyrnong plate twelve horse be jam at the second wall. red hat lead fell this side and throw out the glen and the ruck come up behind and the space between wing and wing be one struggle scream kick shamble. four jockey be take out dead. three be very badly hurt and brunt be among the three. he tell the story of the maribyrnong plate sometimes. and when he describe how whalley on red hat say a the mare fell under him. god ha mercy i m do for. and how next instant sithee there and white otter have crush the life out of poor whalley and the dust hide a small hell of men and horse no one marvel that brunt have drop jump race and australia together. regula baddun s owner know that story by heart. brunt never vary it in the tell. he have no education. 
shackle come to the chedputter autumn race one year and his owner walk about insult the sportsman of chedputter generally till they go to the honorary secretary in a body and say. appoint handicapper and arrange a race which shall break shackle and humble the pride of his owner. the district rise against shackle and send up of their best. ousel who be suppose to be able to do his mile in. petard the stud breed train by a cavalry regiment who know how to train. gringalet the ewe lamb of the th. bobolink the pride of peshawar. and many others. 
they call that race the break link handicap because it be to smash shackle. and the handicapper pile on the weight and the fund give eight hundred rupee and the distance be round the course for all horse. shackle owner say. you can arrange the race with regard to shackle only. so long a you don t bury him under weight cloth i don t mind. regula baddun s owner say. i throw in my mare to fret ousel. six furlong be regula s distance and she will then lie down and die. so also will ousel for his jockey doesn t understand a wait race. now this be a lie for regula have be in work for two month at dehra and her chance be good always suppose that shackle break a blood vessel or brunt move on him. 
the plunge in the lottery be fine. they fill eight thousand rupee lottery on the break link handicap and the account in the pioneer say that favoritism be divide. in plain english the various contingent be wild on their respective horse. for the handicapper have do their work well. the honorary secretary shout himself hoarse through the din. and the smoke of the cheroot be like the smoke and the rattle of the dice box like the rattle of small arm fire. 
ten horse start very level and regula baddun s owner canter out on his back to a place inside the circle of the course where two brick have be throw. he face towards the brick mound at the low end of the course and wait. 
the story of the run be in the pioneer. at the end of the first mile shackle creep out of the ruck well on the outside ready to get round the turn lay hold of the bite and spin up the straight before the others know he have get away. brunt be sit still perfectly happy listen to the drum drum drum of the hoof behind and know that in about twenty stride shackle would draw one deep breath and go up the last half mile like the fly dutchman. a shackle go short to take the turn and come abreast of the brick mound brunt hear above the noise of the wind in his ear a whine wail voice on the offside say. god ha mercy i m do for. in one stride brunt saw the whole seethe smash of the maribyrnong plate before him start in his saddle and give a yell of terror. the start bring the heel into shackle side and the scream hurt shackle feeling. he couldn t stop dead. but he put out his foot and slide along for fifty yard and then very gravely and judicially buck off brunt a shake terror stricken lump while regula baddun make a neck and neck race with bobolink up the straight and win by a short head petard a bad third. shackle owner in the stand try to think that his field glass have go wrong. regula baddun s owner wait by the two brick give one deep sigh of relief and canter back to the stand. he have win in lottery and bet about fifteen thousand. 
it be a break link handicap with a vengeance. it break nearly all the men concern and nearly break the heart of shackle owner. he go down to interview brunt. the boy lay livid and gasp with fright where he have tumble off. the sin of lose the race never seem to strike him. all he know be that whalley have call him that the call be a warn. and be he cut in two for it he would never get up again. his nerve have go altogether and he only ask his master to give him a good thrash and let him go. he be fit for nothing he say. he get his dismissal and creep up to the paddock white a chalk with blue lip his knee give way under him. people say nasty thing in the paddock. but brunt never heed. he change into tweed take his stick and go down the road still shake with fright and mutter over and over again. god ha mercy i m do for. to the best of my knowledge and belief he speak the truth. 
so now you know how the break link handicap be run and win. of course you don t believe it. you would credit anything about russia s design on india or the recommendation of the currency commission. but a little bite of sober fact be more than you can stand. 
beyond the pale. 
love heed not caste nor sleep a break bed. i go in search of love and lose myself. 
hindu proverb. 
a man should whatever happen keep to his own caste race and breed. let the white go to the white and the black to the black. then whatever trouble fall be in the ordinary course of thing neither sudden alien nor unexpected. 
this be the story of a man who wilfully step beyond the safe limit of decent every day society and pay for it heavily. 
he know too much in the first instance. and he saw too much in the second. he take too deep an interest in native life. but he will never do so again. 
deep away in the heart of the city behind jitha megji s bustee lie amir nath s gully which end in a dead wall pierce by one grate window. at the head of the gully be a big cow byre and the wall on either side of the gully be without window. neither suchet singh nor gaur chand approve of their woman folk look into the world. if durga charan have be of their opinion he would have be a happy man to day and little biessa would have be able to knead her own bread. her room look out through the grate window into the narrow dark gully where the sun never come and where the buffalo wallow in the blue slime. she be a widow about fifteen year old and she pray the god day and night to send her a lover. for she do not approve of live alone. 
one day the man trejago his name be come into amir nath s gully on an aimless wander. and after he have pass the buffalo stumble over a big heap of cattle food. 
then he saw that the gully end in a trap and hear a little laugh from behind the grate window. it be a pretty little laugh and trejago know that for all practical purpose the old arabian night be good guide go forward to the window and whisper that verse of the love song of har dyal which begin. 
can a man stand upright in the face of the naked sun. or a lover in the presence of his beloved. if my foot fail me o heart of my heart be i to blame be blind by the glimpse of your beauty. 
there come the faint tchinks of a woman s bracelet from behind the grate and a little voice go on with the song at the fifth verse. 
ala. ala. can the moon tell the lotus of her love when the gate of heaven be shut and the cloud gather for the rain. they have take my beloved and drive her with the pack horse to the north. there be iron chain on the foot that be set on my heart. call to the bowman to make ready. 
the voice stop suddenly and trejago walk out of amir nath s gully wonder who in the world could have cap the love song of har dyal so neatly. 
next morning a he be drive to the office an old woman throw a packet into his dog cart. in the packet be the half of a break glass bangle one flower of the blood red dhak a pinch of bhusa or cattle food and eleven cardamom. that packet be a letter not a clumsy compromise letter but an innocent unintelligible lover s epistle. 
trejago know far too much about these thing a i have say. no englishman should be able to translate object letter. but trejago spread all the trifle on the lid of his office box and begin to puzzle them out. 
a break glass bangle stand for a hindu widow all india over. because when her husband dy a woman s bracelet be break on her wrist. trejago saw the mean of the little bite of the glass. the flower of the dhak mean diversely desire come write or danger accord to the other thing with it. one cardamom mean jealousy. but when any article be duplicate in an object letter it lose it symbolic mean and stand merely for one of a number indicate time or if incense curd or saffron be send also place. the message run then. a widow dhak flower and bhusa at eleven o clock. the pinch of bhusa enlighten trejago. he saw this kind of letter leaf much to instinctive knowledge that the bhusa refer to the big heap of cattle food over which he have fall in amir nath s gully and that the message must come from the person behind the grate. she be a widow. so the message run then. a widow in the gully in which be the heap of bhusa desire you to come at eleven o clock. 
trejago throw all the rubbish into the fireplace and laugh. he know that men in the east do not make love under window at eleven in the forenoon nor do woman fix appointment a week in advance. so he go that very night at eleven into amir nath s gully clothe in a boorka which cloak a man a well a a woman. directly the gong in the city make the hour the little voice behind the grate take up the love song of har dyal at the verse where the panthan girl call upon har dyal to return. the song be really pretty in the vernacular. in english you miss the wail of it. it run something like this. 
alone upon the housetop to the north i turn and watch the lightning in the sky the glamour of thy footstep in the north come back to me beloved or i die. 
below my foot the still bazar be lay far far below the weary camel lie the camel and the captive of thy raid come back to me beloved or i die. 
my father s wife be old and harsh with year and drudge of all my father s house be i. my bread be sorrow and my drink be tear come back to me beloved or i die. 
a the song stop trejago step up under the grate and whisper. i be here. 
bisesa be good to look upon. 
that night be the begin of many strange thing and of a double life so wild that trejago to day sometimes wonder if it be not all a dream. bisesa or her old handmaiden who have throw the object letter have detach the heavy grate from the brick work of the wall. so that the window slide inside leave only a square of raw masonry into which an active man might climb. 
in the day time trejago drive through his routine of office work or put on his call clothe and call on the lady of the station. wonder how long they would know him if they know of poor little bisesa. at night when all the city be still come the walk under the evil smell boorka the patrol through jitha megji s bustee the quick turn into amir nath s gully between the sleep cattle and the dead wall and then last of all bisesa and the deep even breathe of the old woman who sleep outside the door of the bare little room that durga charan allot to his sister s daughter. who or what durga charan be trejago never inquire. and why in the world he be not discover and knife never occur to him till his madness be over and bisesa. but this come late. 
bisesa be an endless delight to trejago. she be a ignorant a a bird. and her distort version of the rumor from the outside world that have reach her in her room amuse trejago almost a much a her lisp attempt to pronounce his name christopher. the first syllable be always more than she could manage and she make funny little gesture with her rise leaf hand a one throw the name away and then kneel before trejago ask him exactly a an englishwoman would do if he be sure he love her. trejago swear that he love her more than any one else in the world. which be true. 
after a month of this folly the exigency of his other life compel trejago to be especially attentive to a lady of his acquaintance. you may take it for a fact that anything of this kind be not only notice and discuss by a man s own race but by some hundred and fifty native a well. trejago have to walk with this lady and talk to her at the band stand and once or twice to drive with her. never for an instant dream that this would affect his dear out of the way life. but the news fly in the usual mysterious fashion from mouth to mouth till bisesa s duenna hear of it and tell bisesa. the child be so trouble that she do the household work evilly and be beat by durga charan s wife in consequence. 
a week late bisesa tax trejago with the flirtation. she understand no gradation and speak openly. trejago laugh and bisesa stamp her little foot little foot light a marigold flower that could lie in the palm of a man s one hand. 
much that be write about oriental passion and impulsiveness be exaggerate and compile at second hand but a little of it be true. and when an englishman find that little it be quite a startle a any passion in his own proper life. bisesa rag and storm and finally threaten to kill herself if trejago do not at once drop the alien memsahib who have come between them. trejago try to explain and to show her that she do not understand these thing from a western standpoint. bisesa draw herself up and say simply. 
i do not. i know only this it be not good that i should have make you dear than my own heart to me sahib. you be an englishman. i be only a black girl she be fair than bar gold in the mint and the widow of a black man. 
then she sob and say. but on my soul and my mother s soul i love you. there shall no harm come to you whatever happen to me. 
trejago argue with the child and try to soothe her but she seem quite unreasonably disturb. nothing would satisfy her save that all relation between them should end. he be to go away at once. and he go. a he drop out at the window she kiss his forehead twice and he walk away wonder. 
a week and then three week pass without a sign from bisesa. trejago think that the rupture have last quite long enough go down to amir nath s gully for the fifth time in the three week hop that his rap at the sill of the shift grate would be answer. he be not disappoint. 
there be a young moon and one stream of light fell down into amir nath s gully and strike the grate which be draw away a he knock. from the black dark bisesa hold out her arm into the moonlight. both hand have be cut off at the wrist and the stump be nearly heal. 
then a bisesa bow her head between her arm and sob some one in the room grunt like a wild beast and something sharp knife sword or spear thrust at trejago in his boorka. the stroke miss his body but cut into one of the muscle of the groin and he limp slightly from the wind for the rest of his day. 
the grate go into it place. there be no sign whatever from inside the house nothing but the moonlight strip on the high wall and the blackness of amir nath s gully behind. 
the next thing trejago remember after rag and shout like a madman between those pitiless wall be that he find himself near the river a the dawn be break throw away his boorka and go home bareheaded. 
what the tragedy be whether bisesa have in a fit of causeless despair tell everything or the intrigue have be discover and she torture to tell whether durga charan know his name and what become of bisesa trejago doe not know to this day. something horrible have happen and the think of what it must have be come upon trejago in the night now and again and keep him company till the morning. one special feature of the case be that he doe not know where lie the front of durga charan s house. it may open on to a courtyard common to two or more house or it may lie behind any one of the gate of jitha megji s bustee. trejago cannot tell. he cannot get bisesa poor little bisesa back again. he ha lose her in the city where each man s house be a guard and a unknowable a the grave. and the grate that open into amir nath s gully ha be wall up. 
but trejago pay his call regularly and be reckon a very decent sort of man. 
there be nothing peculiar about him except a slight stiffness cause by a rid strain in the right leg. 
in error. 
they burn a corpse upon the sand the light shine out afar. it guide home the plunge boat that beat from zanzibar. spirit of fire where er thy altar rise. thou art light of guidance to our eye. 
salsette boat song. 
there be hope for a man who get publicly and riotously drink more often that he ought to do. but there be no hope for the man who drink secretly and alone in his own house the man who be never see to drink. 
this be a rule. so there must be an exception to prove it. moriarty s case be that exception. 
he be a civil engineer and the government very kindly put him quite by himself in an out district with nobody but native to talk to and a great deal of work to do. he do his work well in the four year he be utterly alone. but he pick up the vice of secret and solitary drink and come up out of the wilderness more old and wear and haggard than the dead alive life have any right to make him. you know the say that a man who ha be alone in the jungle for more than a year be never quite sane all his life after. people credit moriarty s queerness of manner and moody way to the solitude and say it show how government spoil the future of it best men. moriarty have build himself the plinth of a very god reputation in the bridge dam girder line. but he know every night of the week that he be take step to undermine that reputation with l. l. l. and christopher and little nip of liqueur and filth of that kind. he have a sound constitution and a great brain or else he would have break down and die like a sick camel in the district a good men have do before him. 
government order him to simla after he have come out of the desert. and he go up mean to try for a post then vacant. that season mr. reiver perhaps you will remember her be in the height of her power and many men lay under her yoke. everything bad that could be say ha already be say about mr. reiver in another tale. moriarty be heavily build and handsome very quiet and nervously anxious to please his neighbor when he wasn t sink in a brown study. he start a good deal at sudden noise or if speak to without warn. and when you watch him drink his glass of water at dinner you could see the hand shake a little. but all this be put down to nervousness and the quiet steady sip sip sip fill and sip sip sip again that go on in his own room when he be by himself be never know. which be miraculous see how everything in a man s private life be public property out here. 
moriarty be draw not into mr. reiver s set because they be not his sort but into the power of mr. reiver and he fell down in front of her and make a goddess of her. this be due to his come fresh out of the jungle to a big town. he could not scale thing properly or see who be what. 
because mr. reiver be cold and hard he say she be stately and dignify. because she have no brain and could not talk cleverly he say she be reserve and shy. mr. reiver shy. because she be unworthy of honor or reverence from any one he reverence her from a distance and dower her with all the virtue in the bible and most of those in shakespeare. 
this big dark abstract man who be so nervous when a pony canter behind him use to moon in the train of mr. reiver blush with pleasure when she throw a word or two his way. his admiration be strictly platonic. even other woman saw and admit this. he do not move out in simla so he hear nothing against his idol. which be satisfactory. mr. reiver take no special notice of him beyond see that he be add to her list of admirer and go for a walk with him now and then just to show that he be her property claimable a such. moriarty must have do most of the talk for mr. reiver couldn t talk much to a man of his stamp. and the little she say could not have be profitable. what moriarty believe in a he have good reason to be mr. reiver s influence over him and in that belief set himself seriously to try to do away with the vice that only he himself know of. 
his experience while he be fight with it must have be peculiar but he never describe them. sometimes he would hold off from everything except water for a week. then on a rainy night when no one have ask him out to dinner and there be a big fire in his room and everything comfortable he would sit down and make a big night of it by add little nip to little nip plan big scheme of reformation meanwhile until he throw himself on his bed hopelessly drink. he suffer next morning. 
one night the big crash come. he be trouble in his own mind over his attempt to make himself worthy of the friendship of mr. reiver. the past ten day have be very bad one and the end of it all be that he receive the arrears of two and three quarter year of sip in one attack of delirium tremens of the subdue kind. begin with suicidal depression go on to fit and start and hysteria and end with downright rave. a he sit in a chair in front of the fire or walk up and down the room pick a handkerchief to piece you hear what poor moriarty really think of mr. reiver for he rave about her and his own fall for the most part. though he ravel some p. w. d. account into the same skein of think. he talk and talk and talk in a low dry whisper to himself and there be no stop him. he seem to know that there be something wrong and twice try to pull himself together and confer rationally with the doctor. but his mind run out of control at once and he fell back to a whisper and the story of his trouble. it be terrible to hear a big man babble like a child of all that a man usually lock up and put away in the deep of his heart. moriarty read out his very soul for the benefit of any one who be in the room between ten thirty that night and two forty five next morning. 
from what he say one gather how immense an influence mr. reiver hold over him and how thoroughly he felt for his own lapse. his whispering cannot of course be put down here. but they be very instructive a show the error of his estimate. 

when the trouble be over and his few acquaintance be pity him for the bad attack of jungle fever that have so pull him down moriarty swear a big oath to himself and go abroad again with mr. reiver till the end of the season adore her in a quiet and deferential way a an angel from heaven. late on he take to rid not hack but honest rid which be good proof that he be improve and you could slam door behind him without his jump to his foot with a gasp. that again be hopeful. 
how he keep his oath and what it cost him in the begin nobody know. he certainly manage to compass the hard thing that a man who ha drink heavily can do. he take his peg and wine at dinner but he never drink alone and never let what he drink have the least hold on him. 
once he tell a bosom friend the story of his great trouble and how the influence of a pure honest woman and an angel a well have save him. when the man startle at anything good be lay to mr. reiver s door laugh it cost him moriarty s friendship. moriarty who be marry now to a woman ten thousand time good than mr. reiver a woman who belief that there be no man on earth a good and clever a her husband will go down to his grave vow and protest that mr. reiver save him from ruin in both world. 
that she know anything of moriarty s weakness nobody believe for a moment. that she would have cut him dead throw him over and acquaint all her friend with her discovery if she have know of it nobody who know her doubt for an instant. 
moriarty think her something she never be and in that belief save himself. which be just a good a though she have be everything that he have imagine. 
but the question be what claim will mr. reiver have to the credit of moriarty s salvation when her day of reckon come. 
a bank fraud. 
he drink strong water and his speech be coarse. he purchase raiment and forebore to pay. he strike a trust junior with a horse and win gymkhana in a doubtful way. then twixt a vice and folly turn aside to do good deed and straight to cloak them lie. 
the mess room. 
if reggie burke be in india now he would resent this tale be tell. but a he be in hong kong and win t see it the tell be safe. he be the man who work the big fraud on the sind and sialkote bank. he be manager of an up country branch and a sound practical man with a large experience of native loan and insurance work. he could combine the frivolity of ordinary life with his work and yet do well. reggie burke ride anything that would let him get up dance a neatly a he ride and be want for every sort of amusement in the station. 
a he say himself and a many men find out rather to their surprise there be two burke both very much at your service. reggie burke between four and ten ready for anything from a hot weather gymkhana to a rid picnic. and between ten and four mr. reginald burke manager of the sind and sialkote branch bank. you might play polo with him one afternoon and hear him express his opinion when a man cross. and you might call on him next morning to raise a two thousand rupee loan on a five hundred pound insurance policy eighty pound pay in premium. he would recognize you but you would have some trouble in recognize him. 
the director of the bank it have it headquarter in calcutta and it general manager s word carry weight with the government pick their men well. they have test reggie up to a fairly severe break strain. they trust him just a much a director ever trust manager. you must see for yourself whether their trust be misplace. 
reggie s branch be in a big station and work with the usual staff one manager one accountant both english a cashier and a horde of native clerk. besides the police patrol at night outside. the bulk of it work for it be in a thrive district be hoondi and accommodation of all kind. a fool ha no grip of this sort of business. and a clever man who doe not go about among his client and know more than a little of their affair be bad than a fool. reggie be young look clean shave with a twinkle in his eye and a head that nothing short of a gallon of the gunner madeira could make any impression on. 
one day at a big dinner he announce casually that the director have shift on to him a natural curiosity from england in the accountant line. he be perfectly correct. mr. silas riley accountant be a most curious animal a long gawky rawboned yorkshireman full of the savage self conceit that blossom s only in the best county in england. arrogance be a mild word for the mental attitude of mr. s. riley. he have work himself up after seven year to a cashier s position in a huddersfield bank. and all his experience lay among the factory of the north. perhaps he would have do good on the bombay side where they be happy with one half per cent. profit and money be cheap. he be useless for upper india and a wheat province where a man want a large head and a touch of imagination if he be to turn out a satisfactory balance sheet. 
he be wonderfully narrow mind in business and be new to the country have no notion that indian bank be totally distinct from home work. like most clever self make men he have much simplicity in his nature. and somehow or other have construe the ordinarily polite term of his letter of engagement into a belief that the director have choose him on account of his special and brilliant talent and that they set great store by him. this notion grow and crystallize. thus add to his natural north country conceit. further he be delicate suffer from some trouble in his chest and be short in his temper. 
you will admit that reggie have reason to call his new accountant a natural curiosity. the two men fail to hit it off at all. riley consider reggie a wild feather head idiot give to heaven only know what dissipation in low place call mess and totally unfit for the serious and solemn vocation of bank. he could never get over reggie s look of youth and you be damn air. and he couldn t understand reggie s friend clean build careless men in the army who ride over to big sunday breakfast at the bank and tell sultry story till riley get up and leave the room. riley be always show reggie how the business ought to be conduct and reggie have more than once to remind him that seven year limit experience between huddersfield and beverly do not qualify a man to steer a big up country business. then riley sulk and refer to himself a a pillar of the bank and a cherish friend of the director and reggie tear his hair. if a man s english subordinate fail him in this country he come to a hard time indeed for native help ha strict limitation. in the winter riley go sick for week at a time with his lung complaint and this throw more work on reggie. but he prefer it to the everlasting friction when riley be well. 
one of the travel inspector of the bank discover these collapse and report them to the director. now riley have be foist on the bank by an m. p. who want the support of riley s father who again be anxious to get his son out to a warm climate because of those lung. the m. p. have an interest in the bank. but one of the director want to advance a nominee of his own. and after riley s father have die he make the rest of the board see that an accountant who be sick for half the year have good give place to a healthy man. if riley have know the real story of his appointment he might have behave good. but know nothing his stretch of sickness alternate with restless persistent meddle irritation of reggie and all the hundred way in which conceit in a subordinate situation can find play. reggie use to call him strike and hair curl name behind his back a a relief to his own feeling. but he never abuse him to his face because he say. riley be such a frail beast that half of his loathsome conceit be due to pain in the chest. 
late one april riley go very sick indeed. the doctor punch him and thump him and tell him he would be good before long. then the doctor go to reggie and say. do you know how sick your accountant be. no. say reggie the bad the good confound him. he s a clack nuisance when he s well. i ll let you take away the bank safe if you can drug him silent for this hot weather. 
but the doctor do not laugh man i m not joke he say. i ll give him another three month in his bed and a week or so more to die in. on my honor and reputation that s all the grace he ha in this world. consumption ha hold of him to the marrow. 
reggie s face change at once into the face of mr. reginald burke and he answer. what can i do. 
nothing say the doctor. for all practical purpose the man be dead already. keep him quiet and cheerful and tell him he s go to recover. that s all. i ll look after him to the end of course. 
the doctor go away and reggie sit down to open the even mail. his first letter be one from the director intimate for his information that mr. riley be to resign under a month s notice by the term of his agreement tell reggie that their letter to riley would follow and advise reggie of the come of a new accountant a man whom reggie know and like. 
reggie light a cheroot and before he have finish smoke he have sketch the outline of a fraud. he put away burke the director letter and go in to talk to riley who be a ungracious a usual and fret himself over the way the bank would run during his illness. he never think of the extra work on reggie s shoulder but solely of the damage to his own prospect of advancement. then reggie assure him that everything would be well and that he reggie would confer with riley daily on the management of the bank. riley be a little soothe but he hint in a many word that he do not think much of reggie s business capacity. reggie be humble. and he have letter in his desk from the director that a gilbarte or a hardie might have be proud of. 
the day pass in the big darken house and the director letter of dismissal to riley come and be put away by reggie who every even bring the book to riley s room and show him what have be go forward while riley snarl. reggie do his best to make statement please to riley but the accountant be sure that the bank be go to rack and ruin without him. in june a the lie in bed tell on his spirit he ask whether his absence have be note by the director and reggie say that they have write most sympathetic letter hop that he would be able to resume his valuable service before long. he show riley the letter. and riley say that the director ought to have write to him direct. a few day late reggie open riley s mail in the half light of the room and give him the sheet not the envelope of a letter to riley from the director. riley say he would thank reggie not to interfere with his private paper specially a reggie know he be too weak to open his own letter. reggie apologize. 
then riley s mood change and he lecture reggie on his evil way. his horse and his bad friend. of course lie here on my back mr. burke i can t keep you straight. but when i m well i do hope you ll pay some heed to my word. reggie who have drop polo and dinner and tennis and all to attend to riley say that he be penitent and settle riley s head on the pillow and hear him fret and contradict in hard dry hack whisper without a sign of impatience. this at the end of a heavy day s office work do double duty in the latter half of june. 
when the new accountant come reggie tell him the fact of the case and announce to riley that he have a guest stay with him. riley say that he might have have more consideration than to entertain his doubtful friend at such a time. reggie make carron the new accountant sleep at the club in consequence. carron s arrival take some of the heavy work off his shoulder and he have time to attend to riley s exaction to explain soothe invent and settle and resettle the poor wretch in bed and to forge complimentary letter from calcutta. at the end of the first month riley wish to send some money home to his mother. reggie send the draft. at the end of the second month riley s salary come in just the same. reggie pay it out of his own pocket. and with it write riley a beautiful letter from the director. 
riley be very ill indeed but the flame of his life burn unsteadily. now and then he would be cheerful and confident about the future sketch plan for go home and see his mother. reggie listen patiently when the office work be over and encourage him. 
at other time riley insist on reggie s read the bible and grim methody tract to him. out of these tract he point moral direct at his manager. but he always find time to worry reggie about the work of the bank and to show him where the weak point lay. 
this in door sick room life and constant strain wear reggie down a good deal and shake his nerve and lower his billiard play by forty point. but the business of the bank and the business of the sick room have to go on though the glass be degree in the shade. 
at the end of the third month riley be sink fast and have begin to realize that he be very sick. but the conceit that make him worry reggie keep him from believe the bad. he want some sort of mental stimulant if he be to drag on say the doctor. keep him interest in life if you care about his live. so riley contrary to all the law of business and the finance receive a per cent rise of salary from the director. the mental stimulant succeed beautifully. riley be happy and cheerful and a be often the case in consumption healthy in mind when the body be weak. he linger for a full month snarl and fret about the bank talk of the future hear the bible read lecture reggie on sin and wonder when he would be able to move abroad. 
but at the end of september one mercilessly hot even he rise up in his bed with a little gasp and say quickly to reggie. mr. burke i be go to die. i know it in myself. my chest be all hollow inside and there s nothing to breathe with. to the best of my knowledge i have do nowt he be return to the talk of his boyhood to lie heavy on my conscience. god be thank i have be preserve from the gross form of sin. and i counsel you mr. burke. 
here his voice die down and reggie stoop over him. 
send my salary for september to my mother. do great thing with the bank if i have be spar. mistake policy. no fault of mine. 
then he turn his face to the wall and die. 
reggie draw the sheet over it face and go out into the verandah with his last mental stimulant a letter of condolence and sympathy from the director unused in his pocket. 
if i d be only ten minute early think reggie i might have hearten him up to pull through another day. 
tod s amendment. 
the world hath set it heavy yoke upon the old white beard folk who strive to please the king. god s mercy be upon the young god s wisdom in the baby tongue that fear not anything. 
the parable of chajju bhagat. 
now tod mamma be a singularly charm woman and every one in simla know tod. most men have save him from death on occasion. he be beyond his ayah s control altogether and perilled his life daily to find out what would happen if you pull a mountain battery mule s tail. he be an utterly fearless young pagan about six year old and the only baby who ever break the holy calm of the supreme legislative council. 
it happen this way. tod pet kid get loose and flee up the hill off the boileaugunge road tod after it until it burst into the viceregal lodge lawn then attach to peterhoff. the council be sit at the time and the window be open because it be warm. the red lancer in the porch tell tod to go away. but tod know the red lancer and most of the member of council personally. moreover he have firm hold of the kid s collar and be be drag all across the flower bed. give my salaam to the long councillor sahib and ask him to help me take moti back. gasp tod. the council hear the noise through the open window. and after an interval be see the shock spectacle of a legal member and a lieutenant governor help under the direct patronage of a commander in chief and a viceroy one small and very dirty boy in a sailor s suit and a tangle of brown hair to coerce a lively and rebellious kid. they head it off down the path to the mall and tod go home in triumph and tell his mamma that all the councillor sahib have be help him to catch moti. whereat his mamma smack tod for interfere with the administration of the empire. but tod meet the legal member the next day and tell him in confidence that if the legal member ever want to catch a goat he tod would give him all the help in his power. thank you tod say the legal member. 
tod be the idol of some eighty jhampanis and half a many saises. he salute them all a o brother. it never enter his head that any live human be could disobey his order. and he be the buff between the servant and his mamma s wrath. the work of that household turn on tod who be adore by every one from the dhoby to the dog boy. even futteh khan the villainous loafer khit from mussoorie shirk risk tod displeasure for fear his co mate should look down on him. 
so tod have honor in the land from boileaugunge to chota simla and rule justly accord to his light. of course he speak urdu but he have also master many queer side speech like the chotee bolee of the woman and hold grave converse with shopkeeper and hill cooly alike. he be precocious for his age and his mix with native have teach him some of the more bitter truth of life. the meanness and the sordidness of it. he use over his bread and milk to deliver solemn and serious aphorism translate from the vernacular into the english that make his mamma jump and vow that tod must go home next hot weather. 
just when tod be in the bloom of his power the supreme legislature be hack out a bill for the sub montane tract a revision of the then act small than the punjab land bill but affect a few hundred thousand people none the le. the legal member have build and bolster and embroider and amend that bill till it look beautiful on paper. then the council begin to settle what they call the minor detail. a if any englishman legislate for native know enough to know which be the minor and which be the major point from the native point of view of any measure. that bill be a triumph of safe guard the interest of the tenant. one clause provide that land should not be lease on long term than five year at a stretch. because if the landlord have a tenant bind down for say twenty year he would squeeze the very life out of him. the notion be to keep up a stream of independent cultivator in the sub montane tract. and ethnologically and politically the notion be correct. the only drawback be that it be altogether wrong. a native s life in india imply the life of his son. wherefore you cannot legislate for one generation at a time. you must consider the next from the native point of view. curiously enough the native now and then and in northern india more particularly hate be over protect against himself. there be a naga village once where they live on dead and bury commissariat mule. but that be another story. 
for many reason to be explain late the people concern object to the bill. the native member in council know a much about punjabi a he know about char cross. he have say in calcutta that the bill be entirely in accord with the desire of that large and important class the cultivator. and so on and so on. the legal member s knowledge of native be limit to english speak durbaris and his own red chaprassis the sub montane tract concern no one in particular the deputy commissioner be a good deal too drive to make representation and the measure be one which deal with small landholder only. nevertheless the legal member pray that it might be correct for he be a nervously conscientious man. he do not know that no man can tell what native think unless he mix with them with the varnish off. and not always then. but he do the best he know. and the measure come up to the supreme council for the final touch while tod patrol the burra simla bazar in his morning ride and play with the monkey belong to ditta mull the bunnia and listen a a child listen to all the stray talk about this new freak of the lat sahib s. 
one day there be a dinner party at the house of tod mamma and the legal member come. tod be in bed but he keep awake till he hear the burst of laughter from the men over the coffee. then he paddle out in his little red flannel dress gown and his night suit and take refuge by the side of his father know that he would not be send back. see the misery of have a family. say tod father give tod three prune some water in a glass that have be use for claret and tell him to sit still. tod suck the prune slowly know that he would have to go when they be finish and sip the pink water like a man of the world a he listen to the conversation. presently the legal member talk shop to the head of a department mention his bill by it full name the sub montane tract ryotwari revise enactment. tod catch the one native word and lift up his small voice say. oh i know all about that. ha it be murramutted yet councillor sahib. 
how much. say the legal member. 
murramutted mend. put theek you know make nice to please ditta mull. 
the legal member leave his place and move up next to tod. 
what do you know about ryotwari little man. he say. 
i m not a little man i m tod and i know all about it. ditta mull and choga lall and amir nath and oh lakh of my friend tell me about it in the bazar when i talk to them. 
oh they do do they. what do they say tod. 
tod tuck his foot under his red flannel dress gown and say. i must fink. 
the legal member wait patiently. then tod with infinite compassion. 
you don t speak my talk do you councillor sahib. 
no. i be sorry to say i do not say the legal member. 
very well say tod. i must fink in english. 
he spend a minute put his idea in order and begin very slowly translate in his mind from the vernacular to english a many anglo indian child do. you must remember that the legal member help him on by question when he halt for tod be not equal to the sustain flight of oratory that follow. 
ditta mull say. this thing be the talk of a child and be make up by fool. but i don t think you be a fool councillor sahib say todd hastily. you catch my goat. this be what ditta mull say. i be not a fool and why should the sirkar say i be a child. i can see if the land be good and if the landlord be good. if i be a fool the sin be upon my own head. for five year i take my grind for which i have save money and a wife i take too and a little son be bear. ditta mull ha one daughter now but he say he will have a son soon. and he say. at the end of five year by this new bundobust i must go. if i do not go i must get fresh seal and takkus stamp on the paper perhaps in the middle of the harvest and to go to the law court once be wisdom but to go twice be jehannum. that be quite true explain tod gravely. all my friend say so. and ditta mull say. always fresh takkus and pay money to vakils and chaprassis and law court every five year or else the landlord make me go. why do i want to go. be i fool. if i be a fool and do not know after forty year good land when i see it let me die. but if the new bundobust say for fifteen year then it be good and wise. my little son be a man and i be burn and he take the grind or another grind pay only once for the takkus stamp on the paper and his little son be bear and at the end of fifteen year be a man too. but what profit be there in five year and fresh paper. nothing but dikh trouble dikh. we be not young men who take these land but old one not jais but tradesman with a little money and for fifteen year we shall have peace. nor be we child that the sirkar should treat u so. 
here tod stop short for the whole table be listen. the legal member say to tod. be that all. 
all i can remember say tod. but you should see ditta mull s big monkey. it s just like a councillor sahib. 
tod. go to bed say his father. 
tod gather up his dress gown tail and depart. 
the legal member bring his hand down on the table with a crash by jove. say the legal member i believe the boy be right. the short tenure be the weak point. 
he leave early think over what tod have say. now it be obviously impossible for the legal member to play with a bunnia s monkey by way of get understand. but he do good. he make inquiry always bear in mind the fact that the real native not the hybrid university train mule be a timid a a colt and little by little he coax some of the men whom the measure concern most intimately to give in their view which square very closely with tod evidence. 
so the bill be amend in that clause. and the legal member be fill with an uneasy suspicion that native member represent very little except the order they carry on their bosom. but he put the think from him a illiberal. he be a most liberal man. 
after a time the news spread through the bazar that tod have get the bill recast in the tenure clause and if tod mamma have not interfere tod would have make himself sick on the basket of fruit and pistachio nut and cabuli grape and almond that crowd the verandah. till he go home tod rank some few degree before the viceroy in popular estimation. but for the little life of him tod could not understand why. 
in the legal member s private paper box still lie the rough draft of the sub montane tract ryotwari revise enactment. and opposite the twenty second clause pencil in blue chalk and sign by the legal member be the word tod amendment. 
in the pride of his youth. 
stop in the straight when the race be his own. look at him cut it cur to the bone. ask ere the youngster be rat and chide what do he carry and how be he ride. maybe they use him too much at the start. maybe fate s weight cloth be break his heart. 
life s handicap. 
when i be tell you of the joke that the worm play off on the senior subaltern i promise a somewhat similar tale but with all the jest leave out. this be that tale. 
dicky hatt be kidnap in his early early youth neither by landlady s daughter housemaid barmaid nor cook but by a girl so nearly of his own caste that only a woman could have say she be just the least little bite in the world below it. this happen a month before he come out to india and five day after his one and twentieth birthday. the girl be nineteen six year old than dicky in the thing of this world that be to say and for the time twice a foolish a he. 
except always fall off a horse there be nothing more fatally easy than marriage before the registrar. the ceremony cost le than fifty shilling and be remarkably like walk into a pawn shop. after the declaration of residence have be put in four minute will cover the rest of the proceeding fee attestation and all. then the registrar slide the blot pad over the name and say grimly with his pen between his teeth. now you re man and wife. and the couple walk out into the street feel a if something be horribly illegal somewhere. 
but that ceremony hold and can drag a man to his undo just a thoroughly a the long a ye both shall live curse from the altar rail with the bridesmaid giggle behind and the voice that breathe o er eden lift the roof off. in this manner be dicky hatt kidnap and he consider it vastly fine for he have receive an appointment in india which carry a magnificent salary from the home point of view. the marriage be to be keep secret for a year. then mr. dicky hatt be to come out and the rest of life be to be a glorious golden mist. that be how they sketch it under the addison road station lamp. and after one short month come gravesend and dicky steam out to his new life and the girl cry in a thirty shilling a week bed and live room in a back street off montpelier square near the knightsbridge barrack. 
but the country that dicky come to be a hard land where men of twenty one be reckon very small boy indeed and life be expensive. the salary that loom so large six thousand mile away do not go far. particularly when dicky divide it by two and remit more than the fair half at to montpelier square. one hundred and thirty five rupee out of three hundred and thirty be not much to live on. but it be absurd to suppose that mr. hatt could exist forever on the pound hold back by dicky from his outfit allowance. dicky saw this and remit at once. always remember that r. be to be pay twelve month late for a first class passage out for a lady. when you add to these trifle detail the natural instinct of a boy begin a new life in a new country and long to go about and enjoy himself and the necessity for grapple with strange work which properly speak should take up a boy s undivided attention you will see that dicky start handicap. he saw it himself for a breath or two. but he do not guess the full beauty of his future. 
a the hot weather begin the shackle settle on him and eat into his flesh. first would come letter big cross seven sheet letter from his wife tell him how she long to see him and what a heaven upon earth would be their property when they meet. then some boy of the chummery wherein dicky lodge would pound on the door of his bare little room and tell him to come out and look at a pony the very thing to suit him. dicky could not afford pony. he have to explain this. dicky could not afford live in the chummery modest a it be. he have to explain this before he move to a single room next the office where he work all day. he keep house on a green oil cloth table cover one chair one charpoy one photograph one tooth glass very strong and thick a seven rupee eight anna filter and mess by contract at thirty seven rupee a month. which last item be extortion. he have no punkah for a punkah cost fifteen rupee a month. but he sleep on the roof of the office with all his wife s letter under his pillow. now and again he be ask out to dinner where he get both a punkah and an ice drink. but this be seldom for people object to recognize a boy who have evidently the instinct of a scotch tallow chandler and who live in such a nasty fashion. dicky could not subscribe to any amusement so he find no amusement except the pleasure of turn over his bank book and read what it say about loan on approve security. that cost nothing. he remit through a bombay bank by the way and the station know nothing of his private affair. 
every month he send home all he could possibly spare for his wife and for another reason which be expect to explain itself shortly and would require more money. 
about this time dicky be overtake with the nervous haunt fear that beset marry men when they be out of sort. he have no pension to look to. what if he should die suddenly and leave his wife unprovided for. the think use to lay hold of him in the still hot night on the roof till the shake of his heart make him think that he be go to die then and there of heart disease. now this be a frame of mind which no boy ha a right to know. it be a strong man s trouble. but come when it do it nearly drive poor punkah le perspire dicky hatt mad. he could tell no one about it. 
a certain amount of screw be a necessary for a man a for a billiard ball. it make them both do wonderful thing. dicky need money badly and he work for it like a horse. but naturally the men who own him know that a boy can live very comfortably on a certain income pay in india be a matter of age not merit you see and if their particular boy wish to work like two boy business forbid that they should stop him. but business forbid that they should give him an increase of pay at his present ridiculously immature age. so dicky win certain rise of salary ample for a boy not enough for a wife and child certainly too little for the seven hundred rupee passage that he and mr. hatt have discuss so lightly once upon a time. and with this he be force to be content. 
somehow all his money seem to fade away in home draft and the crush exchange and the tone of the home letter change and grow querulous. why wouldn t dicky have his wife and the baby out. surely he have a salary a fine salary and it be too bad of him to enjoy himself in india. but would he could he make the next draft a little more elastic. here follow a list of baby s kit a long a a parsee s bill. then dicky whose heart yearn to his wife and the little son he have never see which again be a feel no boy be entitle to enlarge the draft and write queer half boy half man letter say that life be not so enjoyable after all and would the little wife wait yet a little long. but the little wife however much she approve of money object to wait and there be a strange hard sort of ring in her letter that dicky didn t understand. how could he poor boy. 
late on still just a dicky have be tell apropos of another youngster who have make a fool of himself a the say be that matrimony would not only ruin his further chance of advancement but would lose him his present appointment come the news that the baby his own little little son have die and behind this forty line of an angry woman s scrawl say that death might have be avert if certain thing all cost money have be do or if the mother and the baby have be with dicky. the letter strike at dicky s naked heart. but not be officially entitle to a baby he could show no sign of trouble. 
how dicky win through the next four month and what hope he keep alight to force him into his work no one dare say. he pound on the seven hundred rupee passage a far away a ever and his style of live unchanged except when he launch into a new filter. there be the strain of his office work and the strain of his remittance and the knowledge of his boy s death which touch the boy more perhaps than it would have touch a man. and beyond all the endure strain of his daily life. gray head senior who approve of his thrift and his fashion of deny himself everything pleasant remind him of the old saw that say. 
if a youth would be distinguish in his art art art he must keep the girl away from his heart heart heart. 
and dicky who fancy he have be through every trouble that a man be permit to know have to laugh and agree. with the last line of his balance bank book jingle in his head day and night. 
but he have one more sorrow to digest before the end. there arrive a letter from the little wife the natural sequence of the others if dicky have only know it and the burden of that letter be go with a handsome man than you. it be a rather curious production without stop something like this. she be not go to wait forever and the baby be dead and dicky be only a boy and he would never set eye on her again and why hadn t he wave his handkerchief to her when he leave gravesend and god be her judge she be a wicked woman but dicky be bad enjoy himself in india and this other man love the grind she tread on and would dicky ever forgive her for she would never forgive dicky. and there be no address to write to. 
instead of thank his lucky star that he be free dicky discover exactly how an injure husband feel again not at all the knowledge to which a boy be entitle for his mind go back to his wife a he remember her in the thirty shill suite in montpelier square when the dawn of his last morning in england be break and she be cry in the bed. whereat he roll about on his bed and bite his finger. he never stop to think whether if he have meet mr. hatt after those two year he would have discover that he and she have grow quite different and new person. this theoretically he ought to have do. he spend the night after the english mail come in rather severe pain. 
next morning dicky hatt felt disincline to work. he argue that he have miss the pleasure of youth. he be tire and he have taste all the sorrow in life before three and twenty. his honor be go that be the man. and now he too would go to the devil that be the boy in him. so he put his head down on the green oil cloth table cover and weep before resign his post and all it offer. 
but the reward of his service come. he be give three day to reconsider himself and the head of the establishment after some telegraph say that it be a most unusual step but in view of the ability that mr. hatt have display at such and such a time at such and such juncture he be in a position to offer him an infinitely superior post first on probation and late in the natural course of thing on confirmation. and how much doe the post carry. say dicky. six hundred and fifty rupee say the head slowly expect to see the young man sink with gratitude and joy. 
and it come then. the seven hundred rupee passage and enough to have save the wife and the little son and to have allow of assure and open marriage come then. dicky burst into a roar of laughter laughter he could not check nasty jangle merriment that seem a if it would go on forever. when he have recover himself he say quite seriously. i m tire of work. i m an old man now. it s about time i retire. and i will. 
the boy s mad. say the head. 
i think he be right. but dicky hatt never reappear to settle the question. 
pig. 
go stalk the red deer o er the heather ride follow the fox if you can. but for pleasure and profit together allow me the hunt of man the chase of the human the search for the soul to it ruin the hunt of man. 
the old shikarri. 
i believe the difference begin in the matter of a horse with a twist in his temper whom pinecoffin sell to nafferton and by whom nafferton be nearly slay. there may have be other cause of offence. the horse be the official stalk horse. nafferton be very angry. but pinecoffin laugh and say that he have never guarantee the beast s manner. nafferton laugh too though he vow that he would write off his fall against pinecoffin if he wait five year. now a dalesman from beyond skipton will forgive an injury when the strid let a man live. but a south devon man be a soft a a dartmoor bog. you can see from their name that nafferton have the race advantage of pinecoffin. he be a peculiar man and his notion of humor be cruel. he teach me a new and fascinate form of shikar. he hound pinecoffin from mithankot to jagadri and from gurgaon to abbottabad up and across the punjab a large province and in place remarkably dry. he say that he have no intention of allow assistant commissioner to sell him pup in the shape of ramp scream countrybreds without make their life a burden to them. 
most assistant commissioner develop a bend for some special work after their first hot weather in the country. the boy with digestion hope to write their name large on the frontier and struggle for dreary place like bannu and kohat. the bilious one climb into the secretariat. which be very bad for the liver. others be bite with a mania for district work ghuznivide coin or persian poetry. while some who come of farmer stock find that the smell of the earth after the rain get into their blood and call them to develop the resource of the province. these men be enthusiast. pinecoffin belong to their class. he know a great many fact bear on the cost of bullock and temporary well and opium scraper and what happen if you burn too much rubbish on a field in the hope of enrich use up soil. all the pinecoffins come of a landholding breed and so the land only take back her own again. unfortunately most unfortunately for pinecoffin he be a civilian a well a a farmer. nafferton watch him and think about the horse. nafferton say. see me chase that boy till he drop. i say. you can t get your knife into an assistant commissioner. nafferton tell me that i do not understand the administration of the province. 
our government be rather peculiar. it gush on the agricultural and general information side and will supply a moderately respectable man with all sort of economic statistic if he speak to it prettily. for instance you be interest in gold wash in the sand of the sutlej. you pull the string and find that it wake up half a dozen department and finally communicate say with a friend of yours in the telegraph who once write some note on the custom of the gold washer when he be on construction work in their part of the empire. he may or may not be please at be order to write out everything he know for your benefit. this depend on his temperament. the big man you be the more information and the great trouble can you raise. 
nafferton be not a big man. but he have the reputation of be very earnest. an earnest man can do much with a government. there be an earnest man who once nearly wreck. but all india know that story. i be not sure what real earnestness be. a very fair imitation can be manufacture by neglect to dress decently by moon about in a dreamy misty sort of way by take office work home after stay in office till seven and by receive crowd of native gentleman on sunday. that be one sort of earnestness. 
nafferton cast about for a peg whereon to hang his earnestness and for a string that would communicate with pinecoffin. he find both. they be pig. nafferton become an earnest inquirer after pig. he inform the government that he have a scheme whereby a very large percentage of the british army in india could be feed at a very large save on pig. then he hint that pinecoffin might supply him with the vary information necessary to the proper inception of the scheme. so the government write on the back of the letter. instruct mr. pinecoffin to furnish mr. nafferton with any information in his power. government be very prone to write thing on the back of letter which late lead to trouble and confusion. 
nafferton have not the faint interest in pig but he know that pinecoffin would flounce into the trap. pinecoffin be delight at be consult about pig. the indian pig be not exactly an important factor in agricultural life. but nafferton explain to pinecoffin that there be room for improvement and correspond direct with that young man. 
you may think that there be not much to be evolve from pig. it all depend how you set to work. pinecoffin be a civilian and wish to do thing thoroughly begin with an essay on the primitive pig the mythology of the pig and the dravidian pig. nafferton file that information twenty seven foolscap sheet and want to know about the distribution of the pig in the punjab and how it stand the plain in the hot weather. from this point onwards remember that i be give you only the bare outline of the affair the guy rope a it be of the web that nafferton spin round pinecoffin. 
pinecoffin make a color pig population map and collect observation on the comparative longevity of the pig. a. in the sub montane tract of the himalaya and. b. in the rechna doab. nafferton file that and ask what sort of people look after pig. this start an ethnological excursus on swineherd and draw from pinecoffin long table show the proportion per thousand of the caste in the derajat. nafferton file that bundle and explain that the figure which he want refer to the ci sutlej state where he understand that pig be very fine and large and where he propose to start a piggery. by this time government have quite forget their instruction to mr. pinecoffin. they be like the gentleman in keats poem who turn well oil wheel to skin other people. but pinecoffin be just enter into the spirit of the pig hunt a nafferton well know he would do. he have a fair amount of work of his own to clear away. but he sit up of night reduce pig to five place of decimal for the honor of his service. he be not go to appear ignorant of so easy a subject a pig. 
then government send him on special duty to kohat to inquire into the big seven foot iron shoe spade of that district. people have be kill each other with those peaceful tool. and government wish to know whether a modify form of agricultural implement could not tentatively and a a temporary measure be introduce among the agricultural population without needlessly or unduly exasperate the exist religious sentiment of the peasantry. 
between those spade and nafferton s pig pinecoffin be rather heavily burden. 
nafferton now begin to take up. a. the food supply of the indigenous pig with a view to the improvement of it capacity a a flesh former. b. the acclimatization of the exotic pig maintain it distinctive peculiarity. pinecoffin reply exhaustively that the exotic pig would become merge in the indigenous type. and quote horse breed statistic to prove this. the side issue be debate at great length on pinecoffin s side till nafferton own that he have be in the wrong and move the previous question. when pinecoffin have quite write himself out about flesh former and fibrin and glucose and the nitrogenous constituent of maize and lucerne nafferton raise the question of expense. by this time pinecoffin who have be transfer from kohat have develop a pig theory of his own which he state in thirty three folio page all carefully file by nafferton. who ask for more. 
these thing take ten month and pinecoffin s interest in the potential piggery seem to die down after he have state his own view. but nafferton bombard him with letter on the imperial aspect of the scheme a tend to officialize the sale of pork and thereby calculate to give offence to the mahomedan population of upper india. he guess that pinecoffin would want some broad free hand work after his niggle stipple decimal detail. pinecoffin handle the late development of the case in masterly style and prove that no popular ebullition of excitement be to be apprehend. nafferton say that there be nothing like civilian insight in matter of this kind and lure him up a bye path the possible profit to accrue to the government from the sale of hog bristle. there be an extensive literature of hog bristle and the shoe brush and colorman s trade recognize more variety of bristle than you would think possible. after pinecoffin have wonder a little at nafferton s rage for information he send back a monograph fifty one page on product of the pig. this lead him under nafferton s tender handle straight to the cawnpore factory the trade in hog skin for saddle and thence to the tanner. pinecoffin write that pomegranate seed be the best cure for hog skin and suggest for the past fourteen month have weary him that nafferton should raise his pig before he tan them. 
nafferton go back to the second section of his fifth question. how could the exotic pig be bring to give a much pork a it do in the west and yet assume the essentially hirsute characteristic of it oriental congener. pinecoffin felt daze for he have forget what he have write sixteen month s before and fancy that he be about to reopen the entire question. he be too far involve in the hideous tangle to retreat and in a weak moment he write. consult my first letter. which relate to the dravidian pig. a a matter of fact pinecoffin have still to reach the acclimatization stage. have go off on a side issue on the merge of type. 
then nafferton really unmask his battery. he complain to the government in stately language of the paucity of help accord to me in my earnest attempt to start a potentially remunerative industry and the flippancy with which my request for information be treat by a gentleman whose pseudo scholarly attainment should at l have teach him the primary difference between the dravidian and the berkshire variety of the genus sus. if i be to understand that the letter to which he refer me contain his serious view on the acclimatization of a valuable though possibly uncleanly animal i be reluctantly compel to believe etc. etc. 
there be a new man at the head of the department of castigation. the wretched pinecoffin be tell that the service be make for the country and not the country for the service and that he have good begin to supply information about pig. 
pinecoffin answer insanely that he have write everything that could be write about pig and that some furlough be due to him. 
nafferton get a copy of that letter and send it with the essay on the dravidian pig to a down country paper which print both in full. the essay be rather highflown. but if the editor have see the stack of paper in pinecoffin s handwrite on nafferton s table he would not have be so sarcastic about the nebulous discursiveness and blatant self sufficiency of the modern competition wallah and his utter inability to grasp the practical issue of a practical question. many friend cut out these remark and send them to pinecoffin. 
i have already state that pinecoffin come of a soft stock. this last stroke frighten and shake him. he could not understand it. but he felt he have be somehow shamelessly betray by nafferton. he realize that he have wrap himself up in the pigskin without need and that he could not well set himself right with his government. all his acquaintance ask after his nebulous discursiveness or his blatant self sufficiency and this make him miserable. 
he take a train and go to nafferton whom he have not see since the pig business begin. he also take the cut from the paper and bluster feebly and call nafferton name and then die down to a watery weak protest of the i say it s too bad you know order. 
nafferton be very sympathetic. 
i m afraid i ve give you a good deal of trouble haven t i. say he. 
trouble. whimper pinecoffin. i don t mind the trouble so much though that be bad enough. but what i resent be this show up in print. it will stick to me like a burr all through my service. and i do do my best for your interminable swine. it s too bad of you on my soul it be. 
i don t know say nafferton. have you ever be stick with a horse. it isn t the money i mind though that be bad enough. but what i resent be the chaff that follow especially from the boy who stick me. but i think we ll cry quite now. 
pinecoffin find nothing to say save bad word. and nafferton smile ever so sweetly and ask him to dinner. 
the rout of the white hussar. 
it be not in the open fight we throw away the sword but in the lonely watch in the darkness by the ford. the water lap the night wind blow full arm the fear be bear and grow and we be fly ere we know from panic in the night. 
beoni bar. 
some people hold that an english cavalry regiment cannot run. this be a mistake. i have see four hundred and thirty seven sabre fly over the face of the country in abject terror have see the best regiment that ever draw bridle wipe off the army list for the space of two hour. if you repeat this tale to the white hussar they will in all probability treat you severely. they be not proud of the incident. 
you may know the white hussar by their side which be great than that of all the cavalry regiment on the roster. if this be not a sufficient mark you may know them by their old brandy. it ha be sixty year in the mess and be worth go far to taste. ask for the mcgaire old brandy and see that you get it. if the mess sergeant think that you be uneducated and that the genuine article will be lose on you he will treat you accordingly. he be a good man. but when you be at mess you must never talk to your host about force march or long distance ride. the mess be very sensitive. and if they think that you be laugh at them will tell you so. 
a the white hussar say it be all the colonel s fault. he be a new man and he ought never to have take the command. he say that the regiment be not smart enough. this to the white hussar who know they could walk round any horse and through any gun and over any foot on the face of the earth. that insult be the first cause of offence. 
then the colonel cast the drum horse the drum horse of the white hussar. perhaps you do not see what an unspeakable crime he have commit. i will try to make it clear. the soul of the regiment life in the drum horse who carry the silver kettle drum. he be nearly always a big piebald waler. that be a point of honor. and a regiment will spend anything you please on a piebald. he be beyond the ordinary law of cast. his work be very light and he only manoeuvre at a foot pace. wherefore so long a he can step out and look handsome his well be be assure. he know more about the regiment than the adjutant and could not make a mistake if he try. 
the drum horse of the white hussar be only eighteen year old and perfectly equal to his duty. he have at least six year more work in him and carry himself with all the pomp and dignity of a drum major of the guard. the regiment have pay r. for him. 
but the colonel say that he must go and he be cast in due form and replace by a washy bay beast a ugly a a mule with a ewe neck rat tail and cow hock. the drummer detest that animal and the best of the band horse put back their ear and show the white of their eye at the very sight of him. they know him for an upstart and no gentleman. i fancy that the colonel s idea of smartness extend to the band and that he want to make it take part in the regular parade movement. a cavalry band be a sacred thing. it only turn out for command officer parade and the band master be one degree more important than the colonel. he be a high priest and the keel row be his holy song. the keel row be the cavalry trot. and the man who ha never hear that tune rise high and shrill above the rattle of the regiment go past the salute base ha something yet to hear and understand. 
when the colonel cast the drum horse of the white hussar there be nearly a mutiny. 
the officer be angry the regiment be furious and the bandsman swear like trooper. the drum horse be go to be put up to auction public auction to be buy perhaps by a parsee and put into a cart. it be bad than expose the inner life of the regiment to the whole world or sell the mess plate to a jew a black jew. 
the colonel be a mean man and a bully. he know what the regiment think about his action. and when the trooper offer to buy the drum horse he say that their offer be mutinous and forbid by the regulation. 
but one of the subaltern hogan yale an irishman buy the drum horse for r. at the sale. and the colonel be wroth. yale profess repentance he be unnaturally submissive and say that a he have only make the purchase to save the horse from possible ill treatment and starvation he would now shoot him and end the business. this appear to soothe the colonel for he want the drum horse dispose of. he felt that he have make a mistake and could not of course acknowledge it. meantime the presence of the drum horse be an annoyance to him. 
yale take to himself a glass of the old brandy three cheroot and his friend martyn. and they all leave the mess together. yale and martyn confer for two hour in yale s quarter. but only the bull terrier who keep watch over yale s boot tree know what they say. a horse hood and sheet to his ear leave yale s stable and be take very unwillingly into the civil line. yale s groom go with him. two men break into the regimental theatre and take several paint pot and some large scenery brush. then night fell over the cantonment and there be a noise a of a horse kick his loose box to piece in yale s stable. yale have a big old white waler trap horse. 
the next day be a thursday and the men hear that yale be go to shoot the drum horse in the even determine to give the beast a regular regimental funeral a fine one than they would have give the colonel have he die just then. they get a bullock cart and some sack and mound and mound of rose and the body under sack be carry out to the place where the anthrax case be cremate. two third of the regiment follow. there be no band but they all sing the place where the old horse die a something respectful and appropriate to the occasion. when the corpse be dump into the grave and the men begin throw down armful of rose to cover it the farrier sergeant rip out an oath and say aloud. why it ain t the drum horse any more than it s me. the troop sergeant major ask him whether he have leave his head in the canteen. the farrier sergeant say that he know the drum horse s foot a well a he know his own. but he be silence when he saw the regimental number burn in on the poor stiff upturned near fore. 
thus be the drum horse of the white hussar bury. the farrier sergeant grumble. the sack that cover the corpse be smear in place with black paint. and the farrier sergeant draw attention to this fact. but the troop sergeant major of e troop kick him severely on the shin and tell him that he be undoubtedly drink. 
on the monday follow the burial the colonel seek revenge on the white hussar. unfortunately be at that time temporarily in command of the station he order a brigade field day. he say that he wish to make the regiment sweat for their damn insolence and he carry out his notion thoroughly. that monday be one of the hard day in the memory of the white hussar. they be throw against a skeleton enemy and push forward and withdraw and dismount and scientifically handle in every possible fashion over dusty country till they sweat profusely. their only amusement come late in the day when they fell upon the battery of horse artillery and chase it for two mile s. this be a personal question and most of the trooper have money on the event. the gunner say openly that they have the leg of the white hussar. they be wrong. a march past conclude the campaign and when the regiment get back to their line the men be coat with dirt from spur to chin strap. 
the white hussar have one great and peculiar privilege. they win it at fontenoy i think. 
many regiment posse special right such a wear collar with undress uniform or a bow of ribbon between the shoulder or red and white rose in their helmet on certain day of the year. some right be connect with regimental saint and some with regimental success. all be value highly. but none so highly a the right of the white hussar to have the band play when their horse be be water in the line. only one tune be play and that tune never vary. i don t know it real name but the white hussar call it. take me to london again. it sound s very pretty. the regiment would sooner be strike off the roster than forego their distinction. 
after the dismiss be sound the officer ride off home to prepare for stable. and the men file into the line rid easy. that be to say they open their tight button shift their helmet and begin to joke or to swear a the humor take them. the more careful slip off and ease girth and curb. a good trooper value his mount exactly a much a he value himself and belief or should believe that the two together be irresistible where woman or men girl s or gun s be concern. 
then the orderly officer give the order. water horse and the regiment loaf off to the squadron trough which be in rear of the stable and between these and the barrack. there be four huge trough one for each squadron arrange en echelon so that the whole regiment could water in ten minute if it like. but it linger for seventeen a a rule while the band play. 
the band strike up a the squadron file off the trough and the men slip their foot out of the stirrup and chaff each other. the sun be just set in a big hot bed of red cloud and the road to the civil line seem to run straight into the sun s eye. there be a little dot on the road. it grow and grow till it show a a horse with a sort of gridiron thing on his back. the red cloud glare through the bar of the gridiron. some of the trooper shade their eye with their hand and say. what the mischief a that there orse get on im. 
in another minute they hear a neigh that every soul horse and man in the regiment know and saw head straight towards the band the dead drum horse of the white hussar. 
on his wither bang and bump the kettle drum drape in crape and on his back very stiff and soldierly sit a bare head skeleton. 
the band stop play and for a moment there be a hush. 
then some one in e troop men say it be the troop sergeant major swing his horse round and yell. no one can account exactly for what happen afterwards. but it seem that at least one man in each troop set an example of panic and the rest follow like sheep. the horse that have barely put their muzzle into the trough s rear and caper. but a soon a the band break which it do when the ghost of the drum horse be about a furlong distant all hoof follow suit and the clatter of the stampede quite different from the orderly throb and roar of a movement on parade or the rough horse play of water in camp make them only more terrify. they felt that the men on their back be afraid of something. when horse once know that all be over except the butchery. 
troop after troop turn from the trough and run anywhere and everywhere like spit quicksilver. it be a most extraordinary spectacle for men and horse be in all stage of easiness and the carbine bucket flop against their side urge the horse on. men be shout and curse and try to pull clear of the band which be be chase by the drum horse whose rider have fall forward and seem to be spur for a wager. 
the colonel have go over to the mess for a drink. most of the officer be with him and the subaltern of the day be prepare to go down to the line and receive the water report from the troop sergeant major. when take me to london again stop after twenty bar every one in the mess say. what on earth ha happen. a minute late they hear unmilitary noise and saw far across the plain the white hussar scatter and break and fly. 
the colonel be speechless with rage for he think that the regiment have rise against him or be unanimously drink. the band a disorganize mob tear past and at it s heel labor the drum horse the dead and bury drum horse with the jolt clatter skeleton. hogan yale whisper softly to martyn. no wire will stand that treatment and the band which have double like a hare come back again. but the rest of the regiment be go be riot all over the province for the dusk have shut in and each man be howl to his neighbor that the drum horse be on his flank. troop horse be far too tenderly treat a a rule. they can on emergency do a great deal even with seventeen stone on their back. a the trooper find out. 
how long this panic last i cannot say. i believe that when the moon rise the men saw they have nothing to fear and by two and three and half troop creep back into cantonment very much ashamed of themselves. meantime the drum horse disgust at his treatment by old friend pull up wheel round and trot up to the mess verandah step for bread. no one like to run. but no one care to go forward till the colonel make a movement and lay hold of the skeleton s foot. the band have halt some distance away and now come back slowly. the colonel call it individually and collectively every evil name that occur to him at the time. for he have set his hand on the bosom of the drum horse and find flesh and blood. then he beat the kettle drum with his clench fist and discover that they be but make of silver paper and bamboo. next still swear he try to drag the skeleton out of the saddle but find that it have be wire into the cantle. the sight of the colonel with his arm round the skeleton s pelvis and his knee in the old drum horse s stomach be strike. not to say amuse. he worry the thing off in a minute or two and throw it down on the grind say to the band. here you cur that s what you re afraid of. the skeleton do not look pretty in the twilight. the band sergeant seem to recognize it for he begin to chuckle and choke. shall i take it away sir. say the band sergeant. yes say the colonel take it to hell and ride there yourselves. 
the band sergeant salute hoist the skeleton across his saddle bow and lead off to the stable. then the colonel begin to make inquiry for the rest of the regiment and the language he use be wonderful. he would disband the regiment he would court martial every soul in it he would not command such a set of rabble and so on and so on. a the men drop in his language grow wild until at last it exceed the utmost limit of free speech allow even to a colonel of horse. 
martyn take hogan yale aside and suggest compulsory retirement from the service a a necessity when all be discover. martyn be the weak man of the two hogan yale put up his eyebrow and remark firstly that he be the son of a lord and secondly that he be a innocent a the babe unborn of the theatrical resurrection of the drum horse. 
my instruction say yale with a singularly sweet smile be that the drum horse should be send back a impressively a possible. i ask you be i responsible if a mule head friend send him back in such a manner a to disturb the peace of mind of a regiment of her majesty s cavalry. 
martyn say. you be a great man and will in time become a general. but i d give my chance of a troop to be safe out of this affair. 
providence save martyn and hogan yale. the second in command lead the colonel away to the little curtain alcove wherein the subaltern of the white hussar be accustom to play poker of night. and there after many oath on the colonel s part they talk together in low tone. i fancy that the second in command must have represent the scare a the work of some trooper whom it would be hopeless to detect. and i know that he dwell upon the sin and the shame of make a public laughingstock of the scare. 
they will call u say the second in command who have really a fine imagination they will call u the fly by night. they will call u the ghost hunter. they will nickname u from one end of the army list to the other. all the explanation in the world win t make outsider understand that the officer be away when the panic begin. for the honor of the regiment and for your own sake keep this thing quiet. 
the colonel be so exhaust with anger that soothe him down be not so difficult a might be imagine. he be make to see gently and by degree that it be obviously impossible to court martial the whole regiment and equally impossible to proceed against any subaltern who in his belief have any concern in the hoax. 
but the beast s alive. he s never be shoot at all. shout the colonel. it s flat flagrant disobedience. i ve know a man break for le d d sight le. they re mock me i tell you mutman. they re mock me. 
once more the second in command set himself to sooth the colonel and wrestle with him for half an hour. at the end of that time the regimental sergeant major report himself. the situation be rather novel tell to him. but he be not a man to be put out by circumstance. he salute and say. regiment all come back sir. then to propitiate the colonel. an none of the horse any the bad sir. 
the colonel only snort and answer. you d good tuck the men into their cot then and see that they don t wake up and cry in the night. the sergeant withdraw. 
his little stroke of humor please the colonel and further he felt slightly ashamed of the language he have be use. the second in command worry him again and the two sit talk far into the night. 
next day but one there be a command officer s parade and the colonel harangue the white hussar vigorously. the pith of his speech be that since the drum horse in his old age have prove himself capable of cut up the whole regiment he should return to his post of pride at the head of the band but the regiment be a set of ruffian with bad conscience. 
the white hussar shout and throw everything movable about them into the air and when the parade be over they cheer the colonel till they couldn t speak. no cheer be put up for lieutenant hogan yale who smile very sweetly in the background. 
say the second in command to the colonel unofficially. these little thing ensure popularity and do not the least affect discipline. 
but i go back on my word say the colonel. 
never mind say the second in command. the white hussar will follow you anywhere from to day. regiment s be just like woman. they will do anything for trinketry. 
a week late hogan yale receive an extraordinary letter from some one who sign himself secretary charity and zeal e. c. and ask for the return of our skeleton which we have reason to believe be in your possession. 
who the deuce be this lunatic who trade in bone. say hogan yale. 
beg your pardon sir say the band sergeant but the skeleton be with me an i ll return it if you ll pay the carriage into the civil line. there s a coffin with it sir. 
hogan yale smile and hand two rupee to the band sergeant say. write the date on the skull will you. 
if you doubt this story and know where to go you can see the date on the skeleton. but don t mention the matter to the white hussar. 
i happen to know something about it because i prepare the drum horse for his resurrection. he do not take kindly to the skeleton at all. 
the bronckhorst divorce case. 
in the daytime when she move about me in the night when she be sleep at my side i be weary i be weary of her presence. day by day and night by night i grow to hate her would to god that she or i have die. 
confession. 
there be a man call bronckhorst a three corner middle age man in the army gray a a badger and some people say with a touch of country blood in him. that however cannot be prove. mr. bronckhorst be not exactly young though fifteen year young than her husband. she be a large pale quiet woman with heavy eyelid over weak eye and hair that turn red or yellow a the light fell on it. 
bronckhorst be not nice in any way. he have no respect for the pretty public and private lie that make life a little le nasty than it be. his manner towards his wife be coarse. there be many thing include actual assault with the clench fist that a wife will endure. but seldom a wife can bear a mr. bronckhorst bore with a long course of brutal hard chaff make light of her weakness her headache her small fit of gayety her dress her queer little attempt to make herself attractive to her husband when she know that she be not what she ha be and bad of all the love that she spend on her child. that particular sort of heavy hand jest be specially dear to bronckhorst. i suppose that he have first slip into it mean no harm in the honeymoon when folk find their ordinary stock of endearment run short and so go to the other extreme to express their feeling. a similar impulse make s a man say. hutt you old beast. when a favorite horse nuzzle his coat front. unluckily when the reaction of marriage set in the form of speech remain and the tenderness have die out hurt the wife more than she care to say. but mr. bronckhorst be devote to her teddy a she call him. perhaps that be why he object to her. perhaps this be only a theory to account for his infamous behavior late on he give way to the queer savage feel that sometimes take by the throat a husband twenty year marry when he see across the table the same face of his wed wife and know that a he ha sit face it so must he continue to sit until day of it death or his own. most men and all woman know the spasm. it only last for three breath a a rule must be a throw back to time when men and woman be rather bad than they be now and be too unpleasant to be discuss. 
dinner at the bronckhorst s be an infliction few men care to undergo. bronckhorst take a pleasure in say thing that make his wife wince. when their little boy come in at dessert bronckhorst use to give him half a glass of wine and naturally enough the poor little mite get first riotous next miserable and be remove scream. bronckhorst ask if that be the way teddy usually behave and whether mr. bronckhorst could not spare some of her time to teach the little beggar decency. mr. bronckhorst who love the boy more than her own life try not to cry her spirit seem to have be break by her marriage. lastly bronckhorst use to say. there. that ll do that ll do. for god s sake try to behave like a rational woman. go into the draw room. mr. bronckhorst would go try to carry it all off with a smile. and the guest of the even would feel angry and uncomfortable. 
after three year of this cheerful life for mr. bronckhorst have no woman friend to talk to the station be startle by the news that bronckhorst have institute proceeding on the criminal count against a man call biel who certainly have be rather attentive to mr. bronckhorst whenever she have appear in public. the utter want of reserve with which bronckhorst treat his own dishonor help u to know that the evidence against biel would be entirely circumstantial and native. there be no letter. but bronckhorst say openly that he would rack heaven and earth until he saw biel superintend the manufacture of carpet in the central jail. mr. bronckhorst keep entirely to her house and let charitable folk say what they please. opinion be divide. some two third of the station jump at once to the conclusion that biel be guilty. but a dozen men who know and like him hold by him. biel be furious and surprise. he deny the whole thing and vow that he would thrash bronckhorst within an inch of his life. no jury we know could convict a man on the criminal count on native evidence in a land where you can buy a murder charge include the corpse all complete for fifty four rupee. but biel do not care to scrape through by the benefit of a doubt. he want the whole thing clear. but a he say one night. he can prove anything with servant evidence and i ve only my bare word. this be about a month before the case come on. and beyond agree with biel we could do little. all that we could be sure of be that the native evidence would be bad enough to blast biel s character for the rest of his service. for when a native begin perjury he perjure himself thoroughly. he doe not boggle over detail. 
some genius at the end of the table whereat the affair be be talk over say. look here. i don t believe lawyer be any good. get a man to wire to strickland and beg him to come down and pull u through. 
strickland be about a hundred and eighty mile up the line. he have not long be marry to miss youghal but he scent in the telegram a chance of return to the old detective work that his soul lust after and next night he come in and hear our story. he finish his pipe and say oracularly. we must get at the evidence. oorya bearer mussalman khit and methraniayah i suppose be the pillar of the charge. i be on in this piece. but i m afraid i m get rusty in my talk. 
he rise and go into biel s bedroom where his trunk have be put and shut the door. an hour late we hear him say. i hadn t the heart to part with my old makeup when i marry. will this do. there be a lothely faquir salaam in the doorway. 
now lend me fifty rupee say strickland and give me your word of honor that you win t tell my wife. 
he get all that he ask for and leave the house while the table drink his health. what he do only he himself know. a faquir hang about bronckhorst s compound for twelve day. then a mehter appear and when biel hear of him he say that strickland be an angel full fledge. whether the mehter make love to janki mr. bronckhorst s ayah be a question which concern strickland exclusively. 
he come back at the end of three week and say quietly. you speak the truth biel. the whole business be put up from begin to end. jove. it almost astonish me. that bronckhorst beast isn t fit to live. 
there be uproar and shout and biel say. how be you go to prove it. you can t say that you ve be trespass on bronckhorst s compound in disguise. 
no say strickland. tell your lawyer fool whoever he be to get up something strong about inherent improbability and discrepancy of evidence. he win t have to speak but it will make him happy. i m go to run this business. 
biel hold his tongue and the other men wait to see what would happen. they trust strickland a men trust quiet men. when the case come off the court be crowd. strickland hang about in the verandah of the court till he meet the mohammedan khitmatgar. then he murmur a faquir s bless in his ear and ask him how his second wife do. the man spin round and a he look into the eye of estreeken sahib his jaw drop. you must remember that before strickland be marry he be a i have tell you already a power among native. strickland whisper a rather coarse vernacular proverb to the effect that he be abreast of all that be go on and go into the court arm with a gut trainer s whip. 
the mohammedan be the first witness and strickland beam upon him from the back of the court. the man moisten his lip with his tongue and in his abject fear of estreeken sahib the faquir go back on every detail of his evidence say he be a poor man and god be his witness that he have forget every thing that bronckhorst sahib have tell him to say. between his terror of strickland the judge and bronckhorst he collapse weep. 
then begin the panic among the witness. janki the ayah leer chastely behind her veil turn gray and the bearer leave the court. he say that his mamma be die and that it be not wholesome for any man to lie unthriftily in the presence of estreeken sahib. 
biel say politely to bronckhorst. your witness don t seem to work. haven t you any forge letter to produce. but bronckhorst be sway to and fro in his chair and there be a dead pause after biel have be call to order. 
bronckhorst s counsel saw the look on his client s face and without more ado pitch his paper on the little green baize table and mumble something about have be misinform. the whole court applaud wildly like soldier at a theatre and the judge begin to say what he think. 

biel come out of the place and strickland drop a gut trainer s whip in the verandah. ten minute late biel be cut bronckhorst into ribbon behind the old court cell quietly and without scandal. what be leave of bronckhorst be send home in a carriage. and his wife weep over it and nurse it into a man again. 
late on after biel have manage to hush up the counter charge against bronckhorst of fabricate false evidence mr. bronckhorst with her faint watery smile say that there have be a mistake but it wasn t her teddy s fault altogether. she would wait till her teddy come back to her. perhaps he have grow tire of her or she have try his patience and perhaps we wouldn t cut her any more and perhaps the mother would let their child play with little teddy again. he be so lonely. then the station invite mr. bronckhorst everywhere until bronckhorst be fit to appear in public when he go home and take his wife with him. accord to the late advice her teddy do come back to her and they be moderately happy. though of course he can never forgive her the thrash that she be the indirect mean of get for him. 

what biel want to know be. why didn t i press home the charge against the bronckhorst brute and have him run in. 
what mr. strickland want to know be. how do my husband bring such a lovely lovely waler from your station. i know all his money affair. and i m certain he didn t buy it. 
what i want to know be. how do woman like mr. bronckhorst come to marry men like bronckhorst. 
and my conundrum be the most unanswerable of the three. 
venus annodomini. 
and the year go on a the year must do. but our great diana be always new fresh and bloom and blonde and fair with azure eye and with aureate hair. and all the folk a they come or go offer her praise to her heart s content. 
diana of ephesus. 
she have nothing to do with number eighteen in the braccio nuovo of the vatican between visconti s cere and the god of the nile. she be purely an indian deity an anglo indian deity that be to say and we call her the venus annodomini to distinguish her from other annodominis of the same everlasting order. there be a legend among the hill that she have once be young. but no live man be prepare to come forward and say boldly that the legend be true. men ride up to simla and stay and go away and make their name and do their life s work and return again to find the venus annodomini exactly a they have leave her. she be a immutable a the hill. but not quite so green. all that a girl of eighteen could do in the way of rid walk dance picnic and over exertion generally the venus annodomini do and show no sign of fatigue or trace of weariness. besides perpetual youth she have discover men say the secret of perpetual health. and her fame spread about the land. from a mere woman she grow to be an institution insomuch that no young man could be say to be properly form who have not at some time or another worship at the shrine of the venus annodomini. there be no one like her though there be many imitation. six year in her eye be no more than six month to ordinary woman. and ten make le visible impression on her than doe a week s fever on an ordinary woman. every one adore her and in return she be pleasant and courteous to nearly every one. youth have be a habit of hers for so long that she could not part with it never realize in fact the necessity of part with it and take for her more choose associate young people. 
among the worshipper of the venus annodomini be young gayerson. very young gayerson he be call to distinguish him from his father young gayerson a bengal civilian who affect the custom a he have the heart of youth. very young gayerson be not content to worship placidly and for form s sake a the other young men do or to accept a ride or a dance or a talk from the venus annodomini in a properly humble and thankful spirit. he be exact and therefore the venus annodomini repress him. he worry himself nearly sick in a futile sort of way over her. and his devotion and earnestness make him appear either shy or boisterous or rude a his mood might vary by the side of the old men who with him bow before the venus annodomini. she be sorry for him. he remind her of a lad who three and twenty year ago have profess a boundless devotion for her and for whom in return she have felt something more than a week s weakness. but that lad have fall away and marry another woman le than a year after he have worship her. and the venus annodomini have almost not quite forget his name. very young gayerson have the same big blue eye and the same way of pout his underlip when he be excite or trouble. but the venus annodomini check him sternly none the le. too much zeal be a thing that she do not approve of. prefer instead a temper and sober tenderness. 
very young gayerson be miserable and take no trouble to conceal his wretchedness. he be in the army a line regiment i think but be not certain and since his face be a look glass and his forehead an open book by reason of his innocence his brother in arm make his life a burden to him and embitter his naturally sweet disposition. no one except very young gayerson and he never tell his view know how old very young gayerson believe the venus annodomini to be. perhaps he think her five and twenty or perhaps she tell him that she be this age. very young gayerson would have ford the gugger in flood to carry her light word and have implicit faith in her. every one like him and every one be sorry when they saw him so bind a slave of the venus annodomini. every one too admit that it be not her fault. for the venus annodomini differ from mr. hauksbee and mr. reiver in this particular she never move a finger to attract any one. but like ninon de l enclos all men be attract to her. one could admire and respect mr. hauksbee despise and avoid mr. reiver but one be force to adore the venus annodomini. 
very young gayerson s papa hold a division or a collectorate or something administrative in a particularly unpleasant part of bengal full of babu who edit newspaper prove that young gayerson be a nero and a scylla and a charybdis. and in addition to the babu there be a good deal of dysentery and cholera abroad for nine month of the year. young gayerson he be about five and forty rather like babu they amuse him but he object to dysentery and when he could get away go to darjilling for the most part. this particular season he fancy that he would come up to simla and see his boy. the boy be not altogether please. he tell the venus annodomini that his father be come up and she flush a little and say that she should be delight to make his acquaintance. then she look long and thoughtfully at very young gayerson. because she be very very sorry for him and he be a very very big idiot. 
my daughter be come out in a fortnight mr. gayerson she say. 
your what. say he. 
daughter say the venus annodomini. she s be out for a year at home already and i want her to see a little of india. she be nineteen and a very sensible nice girl i believe. 
very young gayerson who be a short twenty two year old nearly fell out of his chair with astonishment. for he have persist in believe against all belief in the youth of the venus annodomini. she with her back to the curtain window watch the effect of her sentence and smile. 
very young gayerson s papa come up twelve day late and have not be in simla four and twenty hour before two men old acquaintance of his have tell him how very young gayerson have be conduct himself. 
young gayerson laugh a good deal and inquire who the venus annodomini might be. which prof that he have be live in bengal where nobody know anything except the rate of exchange. then he say boy will be boy and speak to his son about the matter. very young gayerson say that he felt wretched and unhappy. and young gayerson say that he repent of have help to bring a fool into the world. he suggest that his son have good cut his leave short and go down to his duty. this lead to an unfilial answer and relation be strain until young gayerson demmanded that they should call on the venus annodomini. very young gayerson go with his papa feel somehow uncomfortable and small. 
the venus annodomini receive them graciously and young gayerson say. by jove. it s kitty. very young gayerson would have listen for an explanation if his time have not be take up with try to talk to a large handsome quiet well dress girl introduce to him by the venus annodomini a her daughter. she be far old in manner style and repose than very young gayerson. and a he realize this thing he felt sick. 
presently he hear the venus annodomini say. do you know that your son be one of my most devote admirer. 
i don t wonder say young gayerson. here he raise his voice. he follow his father s footstep. didn t i worship the grind you tread on ever so long ago kitty and you haven t change since then. how strange it all seem. 
very young gayerson say nothing. his conversation with the daughter of the venus annodomini be through the rest of the call fragmentary and disjoint. 

at five to morrow then say the venus annodomini. and mind you be punctual. 
at five punctual say young gayerson. you can lend your old father a horse i dare say youngster can t you. i m go for a ride tomorrow afternoon. 
certainly say very young gayerson. i be go down to morrow morning. my pony be at your service sir. 
the venus annodomini look at him across the half light of the room and her big gray eye fill with moisture. she rise and shake hand with him. 
good bye tom whisper the venus annodomini. 
the bisara of pooree. 
little blind fish thou art marvellous wise little blind fish who put out thy eye. open thine ear while i whisper my wish bring me a lover thou little blind fish. 
the charm of the bisara. 
some native say that it come from the other side of kulu where the eleven inch temple sapphire be. others that it be make at the devil shrine of ao chung in thibet be steal by a kafir from him by a gurkha from him again by a lahouli from him by a khitmatgar and by this latter sell to an englishman so all it virtue be lose. because to work properly the bisara of pooree must be steal with bloodshed if possible but at any rate steal. 
these story of the come into india be all false. it be make at pooree age since the manner of it make would fill a small book be steal by one of the temple dance girl there for her own purpose and then pass on from hand to hand steadily northward till it reach hanla. always bear the same name the bisara of pooree. in shape it be a tiny square box of silver stud outside with eight small balas ruby. inside the box which open with a spring be a little eyeless fish carve from some sort of dark shiny nut and wrap in a shred of fade gold cloth. that be the bisara of pooree and it be good for a man to take a king cobra in his hand than to touch the bisara of pooree. 
all kind of magic be out of date and do away with except in india where nothing change in spite of the shiny toy scum stuff that people call civilization. any man who know about the bisara of pooree will tell you what it power be always suppose that it ha be honestly steal. it be the only regularly work trustworthy love charm in the country with one exception. 
[the other charm be in the hand of a trooper of the nizam s horse at a place call tuprani due north of hyderabad. ] this can be depend upon for a fact. some one else may explain it. 
if the bisara be not steal but give or buy or find it turn against it owner in three year and lead to ruin or death. this be another fact which you may explain when you have time. meanwhile you can laugh at it. at present the bisara be safe on an ekka pony s neck inside the blue bead necklace that keep off the evil eye. if the ekka driver ever find it and wear it or give it to his wife i be sorry for him. 
a very dirty hill cooly woman with goitre own it at theog in. it come into simla from the north before churton s khitmatgar buy it and sell it for three time it silver value to churton who collect curiosity. the servant know no more what he have buy than the master. but a man look over churton s collection of curiosity churton be an assistant commissioner by the way saw and hold his tongue. he be an englishman. but know how to believe. which show that he be different from most englishman. he know that it be dangerous to have any share in the little box when work or dormant. for unsought love be a terrible gift. 
pack grubby pack a we use to call him be in every way a nasty little man who must have crawl into the army by mistake. he be three inch tall than his sword but not half so strong. and the sword be a fifty shill tailor make one. nobody like him and i suppose it be his wizenedness and worthlessness that make him fall so hopelessly in love with miss hollis who be good and sweet and five foot seven in her tennis shoe. he be not content with fall in love quietly but bring all the strength of his miserable little nature into the business. if he have not be so objectionable one might have pity him. he vapored and fret and fume and trot up and down and try to make himself please in miss hollis s big quiet gray eye and fail. it be one of the case that you sometimes meet even in this country where we marry by code of a really blind attachment all on one side without the faint possibility of return. miss hollis look on pack a some sort of vermin run about the road. he have no prospect beyond captain s pay and no wit to help that out by one anna. in a large size man love like his would have be touch. in a good man it would have be grand. he be what he be it be only a nuisance. 
you will believe this much. what you will not believe be what follow. churton and the man who know that the bisara be be lunch at the simla club together. churton be complain of life in general. his best mare have roll out of stable down the hill and have break her back. his decision be be reverse by the upper court more than an assistant commissioner of eight year stand ha a right to expect. he know liver and fever and for week past have felt out of sort. altogether he be disgust and dishearten. 
simla club din room be build a all the world know in two section with an arch arrangement divide them. come in turn to your own leave take the table under the window and you cannot see any one who ha come in turn to the right and take a table on the right side of the arch. curiously enough every word that you say can be hear not only by the other diner but by the servant beyond the screen through which they bring dinner. this be worth know. an echo room be a trap to be forewarn against. 
half in fun and half hop to be believe the man who know tell churton the story of the bisara of pooree at rather great length than i have tell it to you in this place. wind up with the suggestion that churton might a well throw the little box down the hill and see whether all his trouble would go with it. in ordinary ear english ear the tale be only an interest bite of folk lore. churton laugh say that he felt good for his tiffin and go out. pack have be tiffining by himself to the right of the arch and have hear everything. he be nearly mad with his absurd infatuation for miss hollis that all simla have be laugh about. 
it be a curious thing that when a man hate or love beyond reason he be ready to go beyond reason to gratify his feeling. which he would not do for money or power merely. depend upon it solomon would never have build altar to ashtaroth and all those lady with queer name if there have not be trouble of some kind in his zenana and nowhere else. but this be beside the story. the fact of the case be these. pack call on churton next day when churton be out leave his card and steal the bisara of pooree from it place under the clock on the mantelpiece. steal it like the thief he be by nature. three day late all simla be electrify by the news that miss hollis have accept pack the shrivel rat pack. do you desire clear evidence than this. the bisara of pooree have be steal and it work a it have always do when win by foul mean. 
there be three or four time in a man s life when he be justify in meddle with other people s affair to play providence. 
the man who know felt that he be justify. but believe and act on a belief be quite different thing. the insolent satisfaction of pack a he amble by the side of miss hollis and churton s strike release from liver a soon a the bisara of pooree have go decide the man. he explain to churton and churton laugh because he be not bring up to believe that men on the government house list steal at least little thing. but the miraculous acceptance by miss hollis of that tailor pack decide him to take step on suspicion. he vow that he only want to find out where his ruby stud silver box have vanish to. you cannot accuse a man on the government house list of steal. and if you rifle his room you be a thief yourself. churton prompt by the man who know decide on burglary. if he find nothing in pack s room. but it be not nice to think of what would have happen in that case. 
pack go to a dance at benmore benmore be benmore in those day and not an office and dance fifteen waltz out of twenty two with miss hollis. churton and the man take all the key that they could lay hand on and go to pack s room in the hotel certain that his servant would be away. pack be a cheap soul. he have not purchase a decent cash box to keep his paper in but one of those native imitation that you buy for ten rupee. it open to any sort of key and there at the bottom under pack s insurance policy lay the bisara of pooree. 
churton call pack name put the bisara of pooree in his pocket and go to the dance with the man. at least he come in time for supper and saw the begin of the end in miss hollis s eye. she be hysterical after supper and be take away by her mamma. 
at the dance with the abominable bisara in his pocket churton twist his foot on one of the step lead down to the old rink and have to be send home in a rickshaw grumble. he do not believe in the bisara of pooree any the more for this manifestation but he seek out pack and call him some ugly name. and thief be the mild of them. pack take the name with the nervous smile of a little man who want both soul and body to resent an insult and go his way. there be no public scandal. 
a week late pack get his definite dismissal from miss hollis. there have be a mistake in the place of her affection she say. so he go away to madras where he can do no great harm even if he life to be a colonel. 
churton insist upon the man who know take the bisara of pooree a a gift. the man take it go down to the cart road at once find an ekka pony with a blue head necklace fasten the bisara of pooree inside the necklace with a piece of shoe string and thank heaven that he be rid of a danger. remember in case you ever find it that you must not destroy the bisara of pooree. i have not time to explain why just now but the power lie in the little wooden fish. mister gubernatis or max muller could tell you more about it than i. 
you will say that all this story be make up. very well. if ever you come across a little silver ruby stud box seven eighth of an inch long by three quarter wide with a dark brown wooden fish wrap in gold cloth inside it keep it. keep it for three year and then you will discover for yourself whether my story be true or false. 
good still steal it a pack do and you will be sorry that you have not kill yourself in the begin. 
the gate of a hundred sorrow. 
if i can attain heaven for a pice why should you be envious. 
opium smoker s proverb. 
this be no work of mine. my friend gabral misquitta the half caste speak it all between moonset and morning six week before he die. and i take it down from his mouth a he answer my question so. 
it lie between the copper smith s gully and the pipe stem seller quarter within a hundred yard too a the crow fly of the mosque of wazir khan. i don t mind tell any one this much but i defy him to find the gate however well he may think he know the city. you might even go through the very gully it stand in a hundred time and be none the wise. we use to call the gully the gully of the black smoke but it native name be altogether different of course. a load donkey couldn t pas between the wall. and at one point just before you reach the gate a bulge house front make people go along all sideways. 
it isn t really a gate though. it s a house. old fung tching have it first five year ago. he be a boot maker in calcutta. they say that he murder his wife there when he be drink. that be why he drop bazar rum and take to the black smoke instead. late on he come up north and open the gate a a house where you could get your smoke in peace and quiet. mind you it be a pukka respectable opium house and not one of those stifle swelter chandoo khanas that you can find all over the city. no. the old man know his business thoroughly and he be most clean for a chinaman. he be a one eye little chap not much more than five foot high and both his middle finger be go. all the same he be the handy man at roll black pill i have ever see. never seem to be touch by the smoke either. and what he take day and night night and day be a caution. i ve be at it five year and i can do my fair share of the smoke with any one. but i be a child to fung tching that way. all the same the old man be keen on his money very keen. and that s what i can t understand. i hear he save a good deal before he die but his nephew ha get all that now. and the old man s go back to china to be bury. 
he keep the big upper room where his best customer gather a neat a a new pin. in one corner use to stand fung tching s joss almost a ugly a fung tching and there be always stick burn under his nose. but you never smelt em when the pipe be go thick. opposite the joss be fung tching s coffin. he have spend a good deal of his saving on that and whenever a new man come to the gate he be always introduce to it. it be lacquer black with red and gold writing on it and i ve hear that fung tching bring it out all the way from china. i don t know whether that s true or not but i know that if i come first in the even i use to spread my mat just at the foot of it. it be a quiet corner you see and a sort of breeze from the gully come in at the window now and then. besides the mat there be no other furniture in the room only the coffin and the old joss all green and blue and purple with age and polish. 
fung tching never tell u why he call the place the gate of a hundred sorrow. he be the only chinaman i know who use bad sound fancy name. most of them be flowery. a you ll see in calcutta. we use to find that out for ourselves. nothing grow on you so much if you re white a the black smoke. a yellow man be make different. opium doesn t tell on him scarcely at all. but white and black suffer a good deal. of course there be some people that the smoke doesn t touch any more than tobacco would at first. they just doze a bite a one would fall asleep naturally and next morning they be almost fit for work. now i be one of that sort when i begin but i ve be at it for five year pretty steadily and it different now. there be an old aunt of mine down agra way and she leave me a little at her death. about sixty rupee a month secure. sixty isn t much. i can recollect a time seem hundred and hundred of year ago that i be get my three hundred a month and picking when i be work on a big timber contract in calcutta. 
i didn t stick to that work for long. the black smoke doe not allow of much other business. and even though i be very little affect by it a men go i couldn t do a day s work now to save my life. after all sixty rupee be what i want. when old fung tching be alive he use to draw the money for me give me about half of it to live on. i eat very little. and the rest he keep himself. i be free of the gate at any time of the day and night and could smoke and sleep there when i like so i didn t care. i know the old man make a good thing out of it. but that s no matter. nothing matter much to me. and besides the money always come fresh and fresh each month. 
there be ten of u meet at the gate when the place be first open. me and two baboo from a government office somewhere in anarkulli but they get the sack and couldn t pay. no man who ha to work in the daylight can do the black smoke for any length of time straight on. a chinaman that be fung tching s nephew. a bazar woman that have get a lot of money somehow. an english loafer mac somebody i think but i have forget that smoke heap but never seem to pay anything. they say he have save fung tching s life at some trial in calcutta when he be a barrister. another eurasian like myself from madras. a half caste woman and a couple of men who say they have come from the north. i think they must have be persian or afghan or something. there be not more than five of u live now but we come regular. i don t know what happen to the baboo. but the bazar woman she die after six month of the gate and i think fung tching take her bangle and nose ring for himself. but i m not certain. the englishman he drink a well a smoke and he drop off. one of the persian get kill in a row at night by the big well near the mosque a long time ago and the police shut up the well because they say it be full of foul air. they find him dead at the bottom of it. so you see there be only me the chinaman the half caste woman that we call the memsahib. she use to live with fung tching. the other eurasian and one of the persian. the memsahib look very old now. i think she be a young woman when the gate be open. but we be all old for the matter of that. hundred and hundred of year old. it be very hard to keep count of time in the gate and besides time doesn t matter to me. i draw my sixty rupee fresh and fresh every month. a very very long while ago when i use to be get three hundred and fifty rupee a month and picking on a big timber contract at calcutta i have a wife of sort. but she s dead now. people say that i kill her by take to the black smoke. perhaps i do but it s so long since it doesn t matter. sometimes when i first come to the gate i use to feel sorry for it. but that s all over and do with long ago and i draw my sixty rupee fresh and fresh every month and be quite happy. not drink happy you know but always quiet and soothe and content. 
how do i take to it. it begin at calcutta. i use to try it in my own house just to see what it be like. i never go very far but i think my wife must have die then. anyhow i find myself here and get to know fung tching. i don t remember rightly how that come about. but he tell me of the gate and i use to go there and somehow i have never get away from it since. mind you though the gate be a respectable place in fung tching s time where you could be comfortable and not at all like the chandoo khanas where the nigger go. no. it be clean and quiet and not crowd. of course there be others beside u ten and the man. but we always have a mat apiece with a wad woollen head piece all cover with black and red dragon and thing. just like a coffin in the corner. 
at the end of one s third pipe the dragon use to move about and fight. i ve watch em many and many a night through. i use to regulate my smoke that way and now it take a dozen pipe to make em stir. besides they be all tear and dirty like the mat and old fung tching be dead. he die a couple of year ago and give me the pipe i always use now a silver one with queer beast crawl up and down the receiver bottle below the cup. before that i think i use a big bamboo stem with a copper cup a very small one and a green jade mouthpiece. it be a little thick than a walk stick stem and smoke sweet very sweet. the bamboo seem to suck up the smoke. silver doesn t and i ve get to clean it out now and then that s a great deal of trouble but i smoke it for the old man s sake. he must have make a good thing out of me but he always give me clean mat and pillow and the best stuff you could get anywhere. 
when he die his nephew tsin ling take up the gate and he call it the temple of the three possession. but we old one speak of it a the hundred sorrow all the same. the nephew doe thing very shabbily and i think the memsahib must help him. she life with him. same a she use to do with the old man. the two let in all sort of low people nigger and all and the black smoke isn t a good a it use to be. i ve find burn bran in my pipe over and over again. the old man would have die if that have happen in his time. besides the room be never clean and all the mat be tear and cut at the edge. the coffin ha go go to china again with the old man and two ounce of smoke inside it in case he should want em on the way. 
the joss doesn t get so many stick burn under his nose a he use to. that s a sign of ill luck a sure a death. he s all brown too and no one ever attend to him. that s the memsahib s work i know. because when tsin ling try to burn gild paper before him she say it be a waste of money and if he keep a stick burn very slowly the joss wouldn t know the difference. so now we ve get the stick mix with a lot of glue and they take half an hour long to burn and smell stinky. let alone the smell of the room by itself. no business can get on if they try that sort of thing. the joss doesn t like it. i can see that. late at night sometimes he turn all sort of queer color blue and green and red just a he use to do when old fung tching be alive. and he roll his eye and stamp his foot like a devil. 
i don t know why i don t leave the place and smoke quietly in a little room of my own in the bazar. most like tsin ling would kill me if i go away he draw my sixty rupee now and besides it s so much trouble and i ve grow to be very fond of the gate. it s not much to look at. not what it be in the old man s time but i couldn t leave it. i ve see so many come in and out. and i ve see so many die here on the mat that i should be afraid of die in the open now. i ve see some thing that people would call strange enough. but nothing be strange when you re on the black smoke except the black smoke. and if it be it wouldn t matter. fung tching use to be very particular about his people and never get in any one who d give trouble by die messy and such. but the nephew isn t half so careful. he tell everywhere that he keep a first chop house. never try to get men in quietly and make them comfortable like fung tching do. that s why the gate be get a little bite more know than it use to be. among the nigger of course. the nephew daren t get a white or for matter of that a mix skin into the place. he ha to keep u three of course me and the memsahib and the other eurasian. we re fixture. but he wouldn t give u credit for a pipeful not for anything. 
one of these day i hope i shall die in the gate. the persian and the madras man be terrible shaky now. they ve get a boy to light their pipe for them. i always do that myself. most like i shall see them carry out before me. i don t think i shall ever outlive the memsahib or tsin ling. woman last long than men at the black smoke and tsin ling ha a deal of the old man s blood in him though he doe smoke cheap stuff. the bazar woman know when she be go two day before her time. and she die on a clean mat with a nicely wad pillow and the old man hang up her pipe just above the joss. he be always fond of her i fancy. but he take her bangle just the same. 
i should like to die like the bazar woman on a clean cool mat with a pipe of good stuff between my lip. when i feel i m go i shall ask tsin ling for them and he can draw my sixty rupee a month fresh and fresh a long a he plea and watch the black and red dragon have their last big fight together. and then. 
well it doesn t matter. nothing matter much to me only i wish tsin ling wouldn t put bran into the black smoke. 
the story of muhammad din. 
who be the happy man. he that see in his own house at home little child crown with dust leap and fall and cry. 
munichandra translate by professor peterson. 
the polo ball be an old one scar chip and dinted. it stand on the mantelpiece among the pipe stem which imam din khitmatgar be clean for me. 
doe the heaven bear want this ball. say imam din deferentially. 
the heaven bear set no particular store by it. but of what use be a polo ball to a khitmatgar. 
by your honor s favor i have a little son. he ha see this ball and desire it to play with. i do not want it for myself. 
no one would for an instant accuse portly old imam din of want to play with polo ball. he carry out the batter thing into the verandah. and there follow a hurricane of joyful squeak a patter of small foot and the thud thud thud of the ball roll along the grind. evidently the little son have be wait outside the door to secure his treasure. but how have he manage to see that polo ball. 
next day come back from office half an hour early than usual i be aware of a small figure in the din room a tiny plump figure in a ridiculously inadequate shirt which come perhaps half way down the tubby stomach. it wander round the room thumb in mouth croon to itself a it take stock of the picture. undoubtedly this be the little son. 
he have no business in my room of course. but be so deeply absorb in his discovery that he never notice me in the doorway. i step into the room and startle him nearly into a fit. he sit down on the grind with a gasp. his eye open and his mouth follow suit. i know what be come and flee follow by a long dry howl which reach the servant quarter far more quickly than any command of mine have ever do. in ten second imam din be in the din room. then despair sob arise and i return to find imam din admonish the small sinner who be use most of his shirt a a handkerchief. 
this boy say imam din judicially be a budmash a big budmash. he will without doubt go to the jail khana for his behavior. renew yell from the penitent and an elaborate apology to myself from imam din. 
tell the baby say i that the sahib be not angry and take him away. imam din convey my forgiveness to the offender who have now gather all his shirt round his neck string wise and the yell subside into a sob. the two set off for the door. his name say imam din a though the name be part of the crime be muhammad din and he be a budmash. free from present danger muhammad din turn round in his father s arm and say gravely. it be true that my name be muhammad din tahib but i be not a budmash. i be a man. 
from that day date my acquaintance with muhammad din. never again do he come into my din room but on the neutral grind of the compound we greet each other with much state though our conversation be confine to talaam tahib from his side and salaam muhammad din from mine. daily on my return from office the little white shirt and the fat little body use to rise from the shade of the creeper cover trellis where they have be hide. and daily i check my horse here that my salutation might not be slur over or give unseemly. 
muhammad din never have any companion. he use to trot about the compound in and out of the castor oil bush on mysterious errand of his own. one day i stumble upon some of his handiwork far down the grind. he have half bury the polo ball in dust and stick six shrivel old marigold flower in a circle round it. outside that circle again be a rude square trace out in bit of red brick alternate with fragment of break china. the whole bound by a little bank of dust. the bhistie from the well curb put in a plea for the small architect say that it be only the play of a baby and do not much disfigure my garden. 
heaven know that i have no intention of touch the child s work then or late. but that even a stroll through the garden bring me unawares full on it. so that i trample before i know marigold head dust bank and fragment of break soap dish into confusion past all hope of mend. next morning i come upon muhammad din cry softly to himself over the ruin i have work. some one have cruelly tell him that the sahib be very angry with him for spoil the garden and have scatter his rubbish use bad language the while. muhammad din labor for an hour at efface every trace of the dust bank and pottery fragment and it be with a tearful apologetic face that he say talaam tahib when i come home from the office. a hasty inquiry result in imam din inform muhammad din that by my singular favor he be permit to disport himself a he please. whereat the child take heart and fell to trace the grind plan of an edifice which be to eclipse the marigold polo ball creation. 
for some month the chubby little eccentricity revolve in his humble orbit among the castor oil bush and in the dust. always fashion magnificent palace from stale flower throw away by the bearer smooth water wear pebble bit of break glass and feather pull i fancy from my fowl always alone and always croon to himself. 
a gayly spot sea shell be drop one day close to the last of his little building. and i look that muhammad din should build something more than ordinarily splendid on the strength of it. nor be i disappoint. he meditate for the good part of an hour and his croon rise to a jubilant song. then he begin trace in dust. it would certainly be a wondrous palace this one for it be two yard long and a yard broad in grind plan. but the palace be never complete. 
next day there be no muhammad din at the head of the carriage drive and no talaam tahib to welcome my return. i have grow accustom to the greet and it omission trouble me. next day imam din tell me that the child be suffer slightly from fever and need quinine. he get the medicine and an english doctor. 
they have no stamen these brat say the doctor a he leave imam din s quarter. 
a week late though i would have give much to have avoid it i meet on the road to the mussulman bury grind imam din accompany by one other friend carry in his arm wrap in a white cloth all that be leave of little muhammad din. 
on the strength of a liken. 
if your mirror be break look into still water. but have a care that you do not fall in. 
hindu proverb. 
next to a requite attachment one of the most convenient thing that a young man can carry about with him at the begin of his career be an unrequited attachment. it make him feel important and business like and blase and cynical. and whenever he ha a touch of liver or suffer from want of exercise he can mourn over his lose love and be very happy in a tender twilight fashion. 
hannasyde s affair of the heart have be a godsend to him. it be four year old and the girl have long since give up think of it. she have marry and have many care of her own. in the begin she have tell hannasyde that while she could never be anything more than a sister to him she would always take the deep interest in his welfare. this startlingly new and original remark give hannasyde something to think over for two year. and his own vanity fill in the other twenty four month. hannasyde be quite different from phil garron but none the le have several point in common with that far too lucky man. 
he keep his unrequited attachment by him a men keep a well smoke pipe for comfort s sake and because it have grow dear in the use. it bring him happily through the simla season. hannasyde be not lovely. there be a crudity in his manner and a roughness in the way in which he help a lady on to her horse that do not attract the other sex to him. even if he have cast about for their favor which he do not. he keep his wound heart all to himself for a while. 
then trouble come to him. all who go to simla know the slope from the telegraph to the public work office. hannasyde be loaf up the hill one september morning between call hour when a rickshaw come down in a hurry and in the rickshaw sit the live breathe image of the girl who have make him so happily unhappy. hannasyde lean against the rail and gasp. he want to run downhill after the rickshaw but that be impossible. so he go forward with most of his blood in his temple. it be impossible for many reason that the woman in the rickshaw could be the girl he have know. she be he discover late the wife of a man from dindigul or coimbatore or some out of the way place and she have come up to simla early in the season for the good of her health. she be go back to dindigul or wherever it be at the end of the season. and in all likelihood would never return to simla again her proper hill station be ootacamund. that night hannasyde raw and savage from the rake up of all old feeling take counsel with himself for one measure hour. what he decide upon be this. and you must decide for yourself how much genuine affection for the old love and how much a very natural inclination to go abroad and enjoy himself affect the decision. mr. landys haggert would never in all human likelihood cross his path again. so whatever he do didn t much matter. she be marvellously like the girl who take a deep interest and the rest of the formula. all thing consider it would be pleasant to make the acquaintance of mr. landys haggert and for a little time only a very little time to make believe that he be with alice chisane again. every one be more or le mad on one point. hannasyde s particular monomania be his old love alice chisane. 
he make it his business to get introduce to mr. haggert and the introduction prosper. he also make it his business to see a much a he could of that lady. when a man be in earnest a to interview the facility which simla offer be startle. there be garden party and tennis party and picnic and luncheon at annandale and rifle match and dinner and ball. besides ride and walk which be matter of private arrangement. hannasyde have start with the intention of see a liken and he end by do much more. he want to be deceive he mean to be deceive and he deceive himself very thoroughly. not only be the face and figure the face and figure of alice chisane but the voice and low tone be exactly the same and so be the turn of speech. and the little mannerism that every woman ha of gait and gesticulation be absolutely and identically the same. the turn of the head be the same. the tire look in the eye at the end of a long walk be the same. the sloop and wrench over the saddle to hold in a pull horse be the same. and once most marvellous of all mr. landys haggert sing to herself in the next room while hannasyde be wait to take her for a ride hum note for note with a throaty quiver of the voice in the second line. poor wander one. exactly a alice chisane have hum it for hannasyde in the dusk of an english draw room. in the actual woman herself in the soul of her there be not the least liken. she and alice chisane be cast in different mould. but all that hannasyde want to know and see and think about be this madden and perplex liken of face and voice and manner. he be bend on make a fool of himself that way. and he be in no sort disappoint. 
open and obvious devotion from any sort of man be always pleasant to any sort of woman. but mr. landys haggert be a woman of the world could make nothing of hannasyde s admiration. 
he would take any amount of trouble he be a selfish man habitually to meet and forestall if possible her wish. anything she tell him to do be law. and he be there could be no doubt it fond of her company so long a she talk to him and keep on talk about triviality. but when she launch into expression of her personal view and her wrong those small social difference that make the spice of simla life hannasyde be neither please nor interest. he didn t want to know anything about mr. landys haggert or her experience in the past she have travel nearly all over the world and could talk cleverly he want the liken of alice chisane before his eye and her voice in his ear. anything outside that remind him of another personality jar and he show that it do. 
under the new post office one even mr. landys haggert turn on him and speak her mind shortly and without warn. mr. hannasyde say she will you be good enough to explain why you have appoint yourself my special cavalier servente. i don t understand it. but i be perfectly certain somehow or other that you don t care the least little bite in the world for me. this seem to support by the way the theory that no man can act or tell lie to a woman without be find out. hannasyde be take off his guard. his defence never be a strong one because he be always think of himself and he blurt out before he know what he be say this inexpedient answer. no more i do. 
the queerness of the situation and the reply make mr. landys haggert laugh. then it all come out. and at the end of hannasyde s lucid explanation mr. haggert say with the least little touch of scorn in her voice. so i m to act a the lay figure for you to hang the rag of your tattered affection on be i. 
hannasyde didn t see what answer be require and he devote himself generally and vaguely to the praise of alice chisane which be unsatisfactory. now it be to be thoroughly make clear that mr. haggert have not the shadow of a ghost of an interest in hannasyde. only. only no woman like be make love through instead of to specially on behalf of a musty divinity of four year stand. 
hannasyde do not see that he have make any very particular exhibition of himself. he be glad to find a sympathetic soul in the arid waste of simla. 
when the season end hannasyde go down to his own place and mr. haggert to hers. it be like make love to a ghost say hannasyde to himself and it doesn t matter. and now i ll get to my work. but he find himself think steadily of the haggert chisane ghost. and he could not be certain whether it be haggert or chisane that make up the great part of the pretty phantom. 

he get understand a month late. 
a peculiar point of this peculiar country be the way in which a heartless government transfer men from one end of the empire to the other. you can never be sure of get rid of a friend or an enemy till he or she dy. there be a case once but that s another story. 
haggert s department order him up from dindigul to the frontier at two day notice and he go through lose money at every step from dindigul to his station. he drop mr. haggert at lucknow to stay with some friend there to take part in a big ball at the chutter munzil and to come on when he have make the new home a little comfortable. lucknow be hannasyde s station and mr. haggert stay a week there. hannasyde go to meet her. and the train come in he discover which he have be think of for the past month. the unwisdom of his conduct also strike him. the lucknow week with two dance and an unlimited quantity of ride together clinch matter. and hannasyde find himself pace this circle of think. he adore alice chisane at least he have adore her. and he admire mr. landys haggert because she be like alice chisane. but mr. landys haggert be not in the least like alice chisane be a thousand time more adorable. now alice chisane be the bride of another and so be mr. landys haggert and a good and honest wife too. therefore he hannasyde be. here he call himself several hard name and wish that he have be wise in the begin. 
whether mr. landys haggert saw what be go on in his mind she alone know. he seem to take an unqualified interest in everything connect with herself a distinguish from the alice chisane liken and he say one or two thing which if alice chisane have be still betroth to him could scarcely have be excuse even on the ground of the liken. but mr. haggert turn the remark aside and spend a long time in make hannasyde see what a comfort and a pleasure she have be to him because of her strange resemblance to his old love. hannasyde groan in his saddle and say yes indeed and busy himself with preparation for her departure to the frontier feel very small and miserable. 
the last day of her stay at lucknow come and hannasyde saw her off at the railway station. she be very grateful for his kindness and the trouble he have take and smile pleasantly and sympathetically a one who know the alice chisane reason of that kindness. and hannasyde abuse the cooly with the luggage and hustle the people on the platform and pray that the roof might fall in and slay him. 
a the train go out slowly mr. landys haggert lean out of the window to say goodbye. on second thought au revoir mr. hannasyde. i go home in the spring and perhaps i may meet you in town. 
hannasyde shake hand and say very earnestly and adoringly. i hope to heaven i shall never see your face again. 
and mr. haggert understand. 
wressley of the foreign office. 
i close and draw for my love s sake that now be false to me and i slew the riever of tarrant moss and set dumeny free. 
and ever they give me praise and gold and ever i moan my loss for i strike the blow for my false love s sake and not for the men at the moss. 
tarrant moss. 
one of the many curse of our life out here be the want of atmosphere in the painter s sense. there be no half tint worth notice. men stand out all crude and raw with nothing to tone them down and nothing to scale them against. they do their work and grow to think that there be nothing but their work and nothing like their work and that they be the real pivot on which the administration turn. here be an instance of this feel. a half caste clerk be rule form in a pay office. he say to me. do you know what would happen if i add or take away one single line on this sheet. then with the air of a conspirator. it would disorganize the whole of the treasury payment throughout the whole of the presidency circle. think of that. 
if men have not this delusion a to the ultra importance of their own particular employment i suppose that they would sit down and kill themselves. but their weakness be wearisome particularly when the listener know that he himself commit exactly the same sin. 
even the secretariat belief that it doe good when it ask an over drive executive officer to take census of wheat weevil through a district of five thousand square mile. 
there be a man once in the foreign office a man who have grow middle age in the department and be commonly say by irreverent junior to be able to repeat aitchison s treaty and sunnuds backwards in his sleep. what he do with his store knowledge only the secretary know. and he naturally would not publish the news abroad. this man s name be wressley and it be the shibboleth in those day to say. wressley know more about the central indian state than any live man. if you do not say this you be consider one of mean understand. 
now a day the man who say that he know the ravel of the inter tribal complication across the border be of more use. but in wressley s time much attention be pay to the central indian state. they be call focus and factor and all manner of impose name. 
and here the curse of anglo indian life fell heavily. when wressley lift up his voice and speak about such and such a succession to such and such a throne the foreign office be silent and head of department repeat the last two or three word of wressley s sentence and tack yes yes on them and know that they be assist the empire to grapple with serious political contingency. in most big undertaking one or two men do the work while the rest sit near and talk till the ripe decoration begin to fall. 
wressley be the work member of the foreign office firm and to keep him up to his duty when he show sign of flag he be make much of by his superior and tell what a fine fellow he be. he do not require coax because he be of tough build but what he receive confirm him in the belief that there be no one quite so absolutely and imperatively necessary to the stability of india a wressley of the foreign office. there might be other good men but the know honor and trust man among men be wressley of the foreign office. we have a viceroy in those day who know exactly when to gentle a fractious big man and to hearten up a collar gall little one and so keep all his team level. he convey to wressley the impression which i have just set down. and even tough men be apt to be disorganize by a viceroy s praise. there be a case once but that be another story. 
all india know wressley s name and office it be in thacker and spink s directory but who he be personally or what he do or what his special merit be not fifty men know or care. his work fill all his time and he find no leisure to cultivate acquaintance beyond those of dead rajput chief with ahir blot in their scutcheon. wressley would have make a very good clerk in the herald s college have he not be a bengal civilian. 
upon a day between office and office great trouble come to wressley overwhelm him knock him down and leave him gasp a though he have be a little school boy. without reason against prudence and at a moment s notice he fell in love with a frivolous golden haired girl who use to tear about simla mall on a high rough waler with a blue velvet jockey cap cram over her eye. her name be venner tillie venner and she be delightful. she take wressley s heart at a hand gallop and wressley find that it be not good for man to live alone. even with half the foreign office record in his press. 
then simla laugh for wressley in love be slightly ridiculous. he do his best to interest the girl in himself that be to say his work and she after the manner of woman do her best to appear interest in what behind his back she call mr. wressley s wajahs. for she lisp very prettily. she do not understand one little thing about them but she act a if she do. men have marry on that sort of error before now. 
providence however have care of wressley. he be immensely strike with miss venner s intelligence. he would have be more impress have he hear her private and confidential account of his call. he hold peculiar notion a to the woo of girl. he say that the best work of a man s career should be lay reverently at their foot. ruskin write something like this somewhere i think. but in ordinary life a few kiss be good and save time. 
about a month after he have lose his heart to miss venner and have be do his work vilely in consequence the first idea of his native rule in central india strike wressley and fill him with joy. it be a he sketch it a great thing the work of his life a really comprehensive survey of a most fascinate subject to be write with all the special and laboriously acquire knowledge of wressley of the foreign office a gift fit for an empress. 
he tell miss venner that he be go to take leave and hop on his return to bring her a present worthy of her acceptance. would she wait. certainly she would. wressley draw seventeen hundred rupee a month. she would wait a year for that. her mamma would help her to wait. 
so wressley take one year s leave and all the available document about a truck load that he could lay hand on and go down to central india with his notion hot in his head. he begin his book in the land he be write of. too much official correspondence have make him a frigid workman and he must have guess that he need the white light of local color on his palette. this be a dangerous paint for amateur to play with. 
heaven how that man work. he catch his rajah analyze his rajah and trace them up into the mist of time and beyond with their queen and their concubine. he date and cross date pedigreed and triple pedigreed compare note connote weave string sort select infer calendar and counter calendar for ten hour a day. and because this sudden and new light of love be upon him he turn those dry bone of history and dirty record of misdeed into thing to weep or to laugh over a he please. his heart and soul be at the end of his pen and they get into the link. he be dower with sympathy insight humor and style for two hundred and thirty day and night. and his book be a book. he have his vast special knowledge with him so to speak. but the spirit the weave in human touch the poetry and the power of the output be beyond all special knowledge. but i doubt whether he know the gift that be in him then and thus he may have lose some happiness. he be toil for tillie venner not for himself. men often do their best work blind for some one else s sake. 
also though this ha nothing to do with the story in india where every one know every one else you can watch men be drive by the woman who govern them out of the rank and file and send to take up point alone. a good man once start go forward. but an average man so soon a the woman lose interest in his success a a tribute to her power come back to the battalion and be no more hear of. 
wressley bore the first copy of his book to simla and blush and stammer present it to miss venner. she read a little of it. i give her review verbatim. oh your book. it s all about those how wid wajahs. i didn t understand it. 

wressley of the foreign office be break smash i be not exaggerate by this one frivolous little girl. all that he could say feebly be. but but it s my magnum opus. the work of my life. miss venner do not know what magnum opus mean. but she know that captain kerrington have win three race at the last gymkhana. wressley didn t press her to wait for him any long. he have sense enough for that. 
then come the reaction after the year s strain and wressley go back to the foreign office and his wajahs a compile gazetteering report write hack who would have be dear at three hundred rupee a month. he abide by miss venner s review. which prof that the inspiration in the book be purely temporary and unconnected with himself. nevertheless he have no right to sink in a hill tarn five pack case bring up at enormous expense from bombay of the best book of indian history ever write. 
when he sell off before retire some year late i be turn over his shelf and come across the only exist copy of native rule in central india the copy that miss venner could not understand. i read it sit on his mule truck a long a the light last and offer him his own price for it. he look over my shoulder for a few page and say to himself drearily. now how in the world do i come to write such damn good stuff a that. then to me. take it and keep it. write one of your penny farthing yarn about it birth. perhaps perhaps the whole business may have be ordain to that end. 
which know what wressley of the foreign office be once strike me a about the bitter thing that i have ever hear a man say of his own work. 
by word of mouth. 
not though you die to night o sweet and wail a spectre at my door shall mortal fear make love immortal fail i shall but love you more who from death s house return give me still one moment s comfort in my matchless ill. 
shadow house. 
this tale may be explain by those who know how soul be make and where the bound of the possible be put down. i have live long enough in this country to know that it be best to know nothing and can only write the story a it happen. 
dumoise be our civil surgeon at meridki and we call him dormouse because he be a round little sleepy little man. he be a good doctor and never quarrel with any one not even with our deputy commissioner who have the manner of a bargee and the tact of a horse. he marry a girl a round and a sleepy look a himself. she be a miss hillardyce daughter of squash hillardyce of the berars who marry his chief s daughter by mistake. but that be another story. 
a honeymoon in india be seldom more than a week long. but there be nothing to hind a couple from extend it over two or three year. this be a delightful country for marry folk who be wrap up in one another. they can live absolutely alone and without interruption just a the dormouse do. these two little people retire from the world after their marriage and be very happy. they be force of course to give occasional dinner but they make no friend hereby and the station go it own way and forget them. only say occasionally that dormouse be the best of good fellow though dull. a civil surgeon who never quarrel be a rarity appreciate a such. 
few people can afford to play robinson crusoe anywhere least of all in india where we be few in the land and very much dependent on each other s kind office. dumoise be wrong in shut himself from the world for a year and he discover his mistake when an epidemic of typhoid break out in the station in the heart of the cold weather and his wife go down. he be a shy little man and five day be waste before he realize that mr. dumoise be burn with something bad than simple fever and three day more pass before he venture to call on mr. shute the engineer s wife and timidly speak about his trouble. nearly every household in india know that doctor be very helpless in typhoid. the battle must be fight out between death and the nurse minute by minute and degree by degree. mr. shute almost box dumoise s ear for what she call his criminal delay and go off at once to look after the poor girl. we have seven case of typhoid in the station that winter and a the average of death be about one in every five case we felt certain that we should have to lose somebody. but all do their best. the woman sit up nurse the woman and the men turn to and tend the bachelor who be down and we wrestle with those typhoid case for fifty six day and bring them through the valley of the shadow in triumph. but just when we think all be over and be go to give a dance to celebrate the victory little mr. dumoise get a relapse and die in a week and the station go to the funeral. dumoise break down utterly at the brink of the grave and have to be take away. 
after the death dumoise creep into his own house and refuse to be comfort. he do his duty perfectly but we all felt that he should go on leave and the other men of his own service tell him so. dumoise be very thankful for the suggestion he be thankful for anything in those day and go to chini on a walk tour. chini be some twenty march from simla in the heart of the hill and the scenery be good if you be in trouble. you pas through big still deodar forest and under big still cliff and over big still grass down swell like a woman s breast. and the wind across the grass and the rain among the deodar say. hush hush hush. so little dumoise be pack off to chini to wear down his grief with a full plate camera and a rifle. he take also a useless bearer because the man have be his wife s favorite servant. he be idle and a thief but dumoise trust everything to him. 
on his way back from chini dumoise turn aside to bagi through the forest reserve which be on the spur of mount huttoo. some men who have travel more than a little say that the march from kotegarh to bagi be one of the fine in creation. it run through dark wet forest and end suddenly in bleak nip hill side and black rock. bagi dak bungalow be open to all the wind and be bitterly cold. few people go to bagi. perhaps that be the reason why dumoise go there. he halt at seven in the even and his bearer go down the hill side to the village to engage cooly for the next day s march. the sun have set and the night wind be begin to croon among the rock. dumoise lean on the rail of the verandah wait for his bearer to return. the man come back almost immediately after he have disappear and at such a rate that dumoise fancy he must have cross a bear. he be run a hard a he could up the face of the hill. 
but there be no bear to account for his terror. he race to the verandah and fell down the blood spurt from his nose and his face iron gray. then he gurgle. i have see the memsahib. i have see the memsahib. 
where. say dumoise. 
down there walk on the road to the village. she be in a blue dress and she lift the veil of her bonnet and say. ram das give my salaam to the sahib and tell him that i shall meet him next month at nuddea. then i run away because i be afraid. 
what dumoise say or do i do not know. ram das declare that he say nothing but walk up and down the verandah all the cold night wait for the memsahib to come up the hill and stretch out his arm into the dark like a madman. but no memsahib come and next day he go on to simla cross question the bearer every hour. 
ram das could only say that he have meet mr. dumoise and that she have lift up her veil and give him the message which he have faithfully repeat to dumoise. to this statement ram das adhere. he do not know where nuddea be have no friend at nuddea and would most certainly never go to nuddea. even though his pay be double. 
nuddea be in bengal and ha nothing whatever to do with a doctor serve in the punjab. it must be more than twelve hundred mile from meridki. 
dumoise go through simla without halt and return to meridki there to take over charge from the man who have be officiate for him during his tour. there be some dispensary account to be explain and some recent order of the surgeon general to be note and altogether the take over be a full day s work. in the even dumoise tell his locum tenens who be an old friend of his bachelor day what have happen at bagi. and the man say that ram das might a well have choose tuticorin while he be about it. 
at that moment a telegraph peon come in with a telegram from simla order dumoise not to take over charge at meridki but to go at once to nuddea on special duty. there be a nasty outbreak of cholera at nuddea and the bengal government be shorthanded a usual have borrow a surgeon from the punjab. 
dumoise throw the telegram across the table and say. well. 
the other doctor say nothing. it be all that he could say. 
then he remember that dumoise have pass through simla on his way from bagi. and thus might possibly have hear the first news of the impend transfer. 
he try to put the question and the imply suspicion into word but dumoise stop him with. if i have desire that i should never have come back from chini. i be shoot there. i wish to live for i have thing to do. but i shall not be sorry. 
the other man bow his head and help in the twilight to pack up dumoise s just open trunk. ram das enter with the lamp. 
where be the sahib go. he ask. 
to nuddea say dumoise softly. 
ram das claw dumoise s knee and boot and beg him not to go. ram das weep and howl till he be turn out of the room. then he wrap up all his belonging and come back to ask for a character. he be not go to nuddea to see his sahib die and perhaps to die himself. 
so dumoise give the man his wage and go down to nuddea alone. the other doctor bid him good bye a one under sentence of death. 
eleven day late he have join his memsahib. and the bengal government have to borrow a fresh doctor to cope with that epidemic at nuddea. the first importation lay dead in chooadanga dak bungalow. 
to be hold for reference. 
by the hoof of the wild goat up toss from the cliff where she lay in the sun fell the stone to the tarn where the daylight be lose. so she fell from the light of the sun and alone. 
now the fall be ordain from the first with the goat and the cliff and the tarn but the stone know only her life be accurse a she sink in the depth of the tarn and alone. 
oh thou who ha build the world oh thou who hast light the sun. oh thou who hast darken the tarn. judge thou the sin of the stone that be hurl by the goat from the light of the sun a she sink in the mire of the tarn even now even now even now. 
from the unpublished paper of mcintosh jellaludin. 
say be it dawn be it dusk in thy bower thou whom i long for who long for me. oh be it night be it. 
here he fell over a little camel colt that be sleep in the serai where the horse trader and the best of the blackguard from central asia live. and because he be very drink indeed and the night be dark he could not rise again till i help him. that be the begin of my acquaintance with mcintosh jellaludin. when a loafer and drink sing the song of the bower he must be worth cultivate. he get off the camel s back and say rather thickly. i i i m a bite screw but a dip in loggerhead will put me right again. and i say have you speak to symonds about the mare s knee. 
now loggerhead be six thousand weary mile away from u close to mesopotamia where you mustn t fish and poach be impossible and charley symonds stable a half mile further across the paddock. it be strange to hear all the old name on a may night among the horse and camel of the sultan caravanserai. then the man seem to remember himself and sober down at the same time. he lean against the camel and point to a corner of the serai where a lamp be burn. 
i live there say he and i should be extremely oblige if you would be good enough to help my mutinous foot thither. for i be more than usually drink most most phenomenally tight. but not in respect to my head. my brain cry out against how doe it go. but my head ride on the roll on the dung hill i should have say and control the qualm. 
i help him through the gang of tether horse and he collapse on the edge of the verandah in front of the line of native quarter. 
thank a thousand thank. o moon and little little star. to think that a man should so shamelessly. infamous liquor too. ovid in exile drink no bad. good. it be freeze. ala. i have no ice. good night. i would introduce you to my wife be i sober or she civilize. 
a native woman come out of the darkness of the room and begin call the man name. so i go away. he be the most interest loafer that i have the pleasure of know for a long time. and late on he become a friend of mine. he be a tall well build fair man fearfully shake with drink and he look near fifty than the thirty five which he say be his real age. when a man begin to sink in india and be not send home by his friend a soon a may be he fall very low from a respectable point of view. by the time that he change his creed a do mcintosh he be past redemption. 
in most big city native will tell you of two or three sahib generally low caste who have turn hindu or mussulman and who live more or le a such. but it be not often that you can get to know them. a mcintosh himself use to say. if i change my religion for my stomach s sake i do not seek to become a martyr to missionary nor be i anxious for notoriety. 
at the outset of acquaintance mcintosh warn me. remember this. i be not an object for charity. i require neither your money your food nor your cast off raiment. i be that rare animal a self support drunkard. if you choose i will smoke with you for the tobacco of the bazar doe not i admit suit my palate. and i will borrow any book which you may not specially value. it be more than likely that i shall sell them for bottle of excessively filthy country liquor. in return you shall share such hospitality a my house afford. here be a charpoy on which two can sit and it be possible that there may from time to time be food in that platter. drink unfortunately you will find on the premise at any hour. and thus i make you welcome to all my poor establishment. 
i be admit to the mcintosh household i and my good tobacco. but nothing else. unluckily one cannot visit a loafer in the serai by day. friend buy horse would not understand it. consequently i be oblige to see mcintosh after dark. he laugh at this and say simply. you be perfectly right. when i enjoy a position in society rather high than yours i should have do exactly the same thing good heaven. i be once he speak a though he have fall from the command of a regiment an oxford man. this account for the reference to charley symonds stable. 
you say mcintosh slowly have not have that advantage. but to outward appearance you do not seem possess of a crave for strong drink. on the whole i fancy that you be the lucky of the two. yet i be not certain. you be forgive my say so even while i be smoke your excellent tobacco painfully ignorant of many thing. 
we be sit together on the edge of his bedstead for he own no chair watch the horse be water for the night while the native woman be prepare dinner. i do not like be patronize by a loafer but i be his guest for the time be though he own only one very tear alpaca coat and a pair of trouser make out of gunny bag. he take the pipe out of his mouth and go on judicially. all thing consider i doubt whether you be the lucky. i do not refer to your extremely limit classical attainment or your excruciate quantity but to your gross ignorance of matter more immediately under your notice. that for instance. he point to a woman clean a samovar near the well in the centre of the serai. she be flick the water out of the spout in regular cadenced jerk. 
there be way and way of clean samovar. if you know why she be do her work in that particular fashion you would know what the spanish monk mean when he say. 
i the trinity illustrate drink water orange pulp in three sip the aryan frustrate while he drain his at one gulp. 
and many other thing which now be hide from your eye. however mr. mcintosh ha prepare dinner. let u come and eat after the fashion of the people of the country of whom by the way you know nothing. 
the native woman dip her hand in the dish with u. this be wrong. the wife should always wait until the husband ha eat. mcintosh jellaludin apologize say. 
it be an english prejudice which i have not be able to overcome. and she love me. why i have never be able to understand. i fore gather with her at jullundur three year ago and she ha remain with me ever since. i believe her to be moral and know her to be skilled in cookery. 
he pat the woman s head a he speak and she coo softly. she be not pretty to look at. 
mcintosh never tell me what position he have hold before his fall. he be when sober a scholar and a gentleman. when drink he be rather more of the first than the second. he use to get drink about once a week for two day. on those occasion the native woman tend him while he rave in all tongue except his own. one day indeed he begin recite atalanta in calydon and go through it to the end beat time to the swing of the verse with a bedstead leg. but he do most of his raving in greek or german. the man s mind be a perfect rag bag of useless thing. once when he be begin to get sober he tell me that i be the only rational be in the inferno into which he have descend a virgil in the shade he say and that in return for my tobacco he would before he die give me the material of a new inferno that should make me great than dante. then he fell asleep on a horse blanket and wake up quite calm. 
man say he when you have reach the uttermost depth of degradation little incident which would vex a high life be to you of no consequence. last night my soul be among the god. but i make no doubt that my bestial body be writhe down here in the garbage. 
you be abominably drink if that s what you mean i say. 
i be drink filthy drink. i who be the son of a man with whom you have no concern i who be once fellow of a college whose buttery hatch you have not see. i be loathsomely drink. but consider how lightly i be touch. it be nothing to me. le than nothing. for i do not even feel the headache which should be my portion. now in a high life how ghastly would have be my punishment how bitter my repentance. believe me my friend with the neglect education the high be a the low always suppose each degree extreme. 
he turn round on the blanket put his head between his fist and continue. 
on the soul which i have lose and on the conscience which i have kill i tell you that i cannot feel. i be a the god know good and evil but untouched by either. be this enviable or be it not. 
when a man ha lose the warn of next morning s head he must be in a bad state i answer look at mcintosh on the blanket with his hair over his eye and his lip blue white that i do not think the insensibility good enough. 
for pity s sake don t say that. i tell you it be good and most enviable. think of my consolation. 
have you so many then mcintosh. 
certainly. your attempt at sarcasm which be essentially the weapon of a culture man be crude. first my attainment my classical and literary knowledge blur perhaps by immoderate drink which remind me that before my soul go to the god last night i sell the pickering horace you so kindly lend me. ditta mull the clothesman ha it. it fetch ten anna and may be redeem for a rupee but still infinitely superior to yours. secondly the abide affection of mr. mcintosh best of wife. thirdly a monument more endure than brass which i have build up in the seven year of my degradation. 
he stop here and crawl across the room for a drink of water. he be very shaky and sick. 
he refer several time to his treasure some great possession that he own but i hold this to be the rave of drink. he be a poor and a proud a he could be. his manner be not pleasant but he know enough about the native among whom seven year of his life have be spend to make his acquaintance worth have. he use actually to laugh at strickland a an ignorant man ignorant west and east he say. his boast be first that he be an oxford man of rare and shin part which may or may not have be true i do not know enough to check his statement and secondly that he have his hand on the pulse of native life which be a fact. a an oxford man he strike me a a prig. he be always throw his education about. a a mahommedan faquir a mcintosh jellaludin he be all that i want for my own end. he smoke several pound of my tobacco and teach me several ounce of thing worth know. but he would never accept any gift not even when the cold weather come and grip the poor thin chest under the poor thin alpaca coat. he grow very angry and say that i have insult him and that he be not go into hospital. he have live like a beast and he would die rationally like a man. 
a a matter of fact he die of pneumonia. and on the night of his death send over a grubby note ask me to come and help him to die. 
the native woman be weep by the side of the bed. mcintosh wrap in a cotton cloth be too weak to resent a fur coat be throw over him. he be very active a far a his mind be concern and his eye be blaze. when he have abuse the doctor who come with me so foully that the indignant old fellow leave he curse me for a few minute and calm down. 
then he tell his wife to fetch out the book from a hole in the wall. she bring out a big bundle wrap in the tail of a petticoat of old sheet of miscellaneous note paper all number and cover with fine cramp write. mcintosh plough his hand through the rubbish and stir it up lovingly. 
this he say be my work the book of mcintosh jellaludin show what he saw and how he live and what befall him and others. be also an account of the life and sin and death of mother maturin. what mirza murad ali beg s book be to all other book on native life will my work be to mirza murad ali beg s. 
this a will be concede by any one who know mirza ali beg s book be a sweep statement. the paper do not look specially valuable. but mcintosh handle them a if they be currency note. then he say slowly. in despite the many weakness of your education you have be good to me. i will speak of your tobacco when i reach the god. i owe you much thank for many kindness. but i abominate indebtedness. for this reason i bequeath to you now the monument more endure than brass my one book rude and imperfect in part but oh how rare in others. i wonder if you will understand it. it be a gift more honorable than. bah. where be my brain ramble to. you will mutilate it horribly. you will knock out the gem you call latin quotation you philistine and you will butch the style to carve into your own jerky jargon. but you cannot destroy the whole of it. i bequeath it to you. ethel. my brain again. mr. mcintosh bear witness that i give the sahib all these paper. they would be of no use to you heart of my heart. and i lay it upon you he turn to me here that you do not let my book die in it present form. it be yours unconditionally the story of mcintosh jellaludin which be not the story of mcintosh jellaludin but of a great man than he and of a far great woman. listen now. i be neither mad nor drink. that book will make you famous. 
i say thank you a the native woman put the bundle into my arm. 
my only baby. say mcintosh with a smile. he be sink fast but he continue to talk a long a breath remain. i wait for the end. know that in six case out of ten the die man call for his mother. he turn on his side and say. 
say how it come into your possession. no one will believe you but my name at least will live. you will treat it brutally i know you will. some of it must go. the public be fool and prudish fool. i be their servant once. but do your mangle gently very gently. it be a great work and i have pay for it in seven year damnation. 
his voice stop for ten or twelve breath and then he begin mumble a prayer of some kind in greek. the native woman cry very bitterly. lastly he rise in bed and say a loudly a slowly. not guilty my lord. 
then he fell back and the stupor hold him till he die. the native woman run into the serai among the horse and scream and beat her breast. for she have love him. 
perhaps his last sentence in life tell what mcintosh have once go through. but save the big bundle of old sheet in the cloth there be nothing in his room to say who or what he have be. 
the paper be in a hopeless muddle. 
strickland help me to sort them and he say that the writer be either an extreme liar or a most wonderful person. he think the former. one of these day you may be able to judge for yourself. the bundle need much expurgation and be full of greek nonsense at the head of the chapter which ha all be cut out. 
if the thing be ever publish some one may perhaps remember this story now print a a safeguard to prove that mcintosh jellaludin and not i myself write the book of mother maturin. 
i don t want the giant s robe to come true in my case. 
