action and reaction. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
an habitation enforce the recall. 
garm a hostage the power of the dog. 
the mother hive the bee and the fly. 
with the night mail the four angel. 
a deal in cotton the new knighthood. 
the puzzler the puzzler little fox gallio s song. 
the house surgeon the rabbi s song. 
action and reaction. 
an habitation enforce. 
my friend if cause doth wrest thee ere folly hath much oppress thee far from acquaintance k thee where country may digest thee. thank god that so hath bless thee and sit down robin and rest thee. thomas tusser. 
it come without warn at the very hour his hand be outstretched to crumple the holz and gunsberg combine. the new york doctor call it overwork and he lay in a darken room one ankle cross above the other tongue press into palate wonder whether the next brain surge of prickly fire would drive his soul from all anchorage. at last they give judgment. with care he might in two year return to the arena but for the present he must go across the water and do no work whatever. he accept the term. it be capitulation. but the combine that have shiver beneath his knife give him all the honour of war. gunsberg himself full of condolence come to the steamer and fill the chapins suite of cabin with overwhelm flower work. 
smilax say george chapin when he saw them. fitz be right. i m dead. only i don t see why he leave out the in memoriam on the ribbon. 
nonsense. his wife answer and pour him his tincture. you ll be back before you can think. 
he look at himself in the mirror surprise that his face have not be brand by the hell of the past three month. the noise of the deck worry him and he lay down his tongue only a little press against his palate. 
an hour late he say. sophie i feel sorry about take you away from everything like this. i i suppose we re the two lonely people on god s earth to night. 
say sophie his wife and kiss him. isn t it something to you that we re go together. 
they drift about europe for month sometimes alone sometimes with chance meet gipsy of their own land. from the north cape to the blue grotto at capri they wander because the next steamer head that way or because some one have set them on the road. the doctor have warn sophie that chapin be not to take interest even in other men s interest. but a familiar sensation at the back of the neck after one hour s keen talk with a nauheimed railway magnate save her any trouble. he nearly weep. 
and i m over thirty he cry. with all i mean to do. 
let s call it a honeymoon say sophie. d you know in all the six year we ve be marry you ve never tell me what you mean to do with your life. 
with my life. what s the use. it s finish now. sophie look up quickly from the bay of naples. a far a my business go i shall have to live on my rent like that architect at san moritz. 
you ll get good if you don t worry. and even if it rake time there be bad thing than how much have you. 
between four and five million. but it isn t the money. you know it isn t. it s the principle. how could you respect me. you never do the first year after we marry till i go to work like the others. our tradition and upbringing be against it. we can t accept those ideal. 
well i suppose i marry you for some sort of ideal she answer and they return to their forty third hotel. 
in england they miss the alien tongue of continental street that remind them of their own polyglot city. in england all men speak one tongue speciously like american to the ear but on cross examination unintelligible. 
ah but you have not see england say a lady with iron grey hair. they have meet her in vienna bayreuth and florence and be grateful to find her again at claridge s for she command situation and know where prescription be most carefully make up. you ought to take an interest in the home of our ancestor a i do. 
i ve try for a week mr. shonts say sophie but i never get any further than tip german waiter. 
these men be not the true type mr. shout go on. i know where you should go. 
chapin prick up his ear anxious to run anywhere from the street on which quick men something of his kidney do the business deny to him. 
we hear and we obey mr. shonts say sophie feel his unrest a he drink the loathe british tea. 
mr. shonts smile and take them in hand. she write widely and telegraph far on their behalf till arm with her letter of introduction she drive them into that wilderness which be reach from an ash barrel of a station call char cross. they be to go to rockett s the farm of one cloke in the southern county where she assure them they would meet the genuine england of folklore and song. 
rocketts they find after some hour four mile from a station and so far a they could judge in the bumpy darkness twice a many from a road. tree kine and the outline of barn show shadowy about them when they alight and mr. and mr. cloke at the open door of a deep stone floor kitchen make them shyly welcome. they lay in an attic beneath a wavy whitewash ceiling and because it rain a wood fire be make in an iron basket on a brick hearth and they fell asleep to the chirp of mouse and the whimper of flame. 
when they wake it be a fair day full of the noise of bird the smell of box lavender and fry bacon mix with an elemental smell they have never meet before. 
this say sophie nearly push out the thin casement in an attempt to see round the corner be what do the hack cabman say to the railway porter about my trunk quite on the top. 
no. a little bite of all right. i feel farther away from anywhere than i ve ever felt in my life. we must find out where the telegraph office be. 
who care. say sophie wander about hairbrush in hand to admire the illustrate weekly picture paste on door and cupboard. 
but there be no rest for the alien soul till he have make sure of the telegraph office. he ask the clokes daughter lay breakfast while sophie plunge her face in the lavender bush outside the low window. 
go to the stile a top o the barn field say mary and look across pardon to the next spire. it s directly under. you can t miss it not if you keep to the footpath. my sister s the telegraphist there. but you re in the three mile radius sir. the boy deliver telegram directly to this door from pardon village. 
one ha to take a good deal on trust in this country he murmur. 
sophie look at the close turf scar only with last night s wheel at two rut which wind round a rickyard and at the circle of still orchard about the half timbered house. 
what s the matter with it. she say. telegram deliver to the vale of avalon of course and she beckon in an earnest eye hound of engage manner and no engagement who answer at time to the name of rambler. he lead them after breakfast to the rise behind the house where the stile stand against the skyline and i wonder what we shall find now say sophie frankly prance with joy on the grass. 
it be a slope of gap hedge field possess to their centre by clump of bramble. gate be not and the rabbit mine cattle rub post lean out and in. a narrow path double among the bush score of white tail twinkle before the race hound and a hawk rise whistle shrilly. 
no road no nothing. say sophie her short skirt hook by brier. i think all england be a garden. there s your spire george across the valley. how curious. 
they walk toward it through an all abandon land. here they find the ghost of a patch of lucerne that have refuse to die. there a harsh fallow surrender to yard high thistle. and here a breadth of rampant kelk feign to be lawful crop. in the ungrazed pasture swath of dead stuff catch their foot and the grind beneath glisten with sweat. at the bottom of the valley a little brook have undermine it footbridge and froth in the wreckage. but there stand great wood on the slope beyond old tall and brilliant like unfaded tapestry against the wall of a ruin house. 
all this within a hundred mile of london he say. look a if it have have nervous prostration too. the footpath turn the shoulder of a slope through a thicket of rank rhododendron and cross what have once be a carriage drive which end in the shadow of two gigantic holm oak. 
a house. say sophie in a whisper. a colonial house. 
behind the blue green of the twin tree rise a dark bluish brick georgian pile with a shell shape fan light over it pillared door. the hound have go off on his own foolish quest. except for some stir it the branch and the flight of four startle magpie. there be neither life nor sound about the square house but it look out of it long window most friendlily. 
cha arm to meet you i m sure say sophie and curtsy to the grind. george this be history i can understand. we begin here. she curtsy again. 
the june sunshine twinkle on all the light. it be a though an old lady wise in three generation experience but for the present sit out bend to listen to her flush and eager grandchild. 
i must look. sophie tiptoe to a window and shade her eye with her hand. oh this room s half full of cotton bale wool i suppose. but i can see a bite of the mantelpiece. george do come. isn t that some one. 
she fell back behind her husband. the front door open slowly to show the hound his nose white with milk in charge of an ancient of day clothe in a blue linen ephod curiously gather on breast and shoulder. 
certainly say george half aloud. father time himself. this be where he life sophie. 
we come say sophie weakly. can we see the house. i m afraid that s our dog. 
no ti rambler say the old man. he s be at my swill pail again. stay at rocketts be ye. come in. ah. you runagate. 
the hound break from him and he totter after him down the drive. they enter the hall just such a high light hall a such a house should own. a slim balustered staircase wide and shallow and once creamy white climb out of it under a long oval window. on either side delicately mould door give on to wool lumber room whose sea green mantelpiece be adorn with nymph scroll and cupid in low relief. 
what s the firm that make these thing. cry sophie enrapture. oh i forget. these must be the original. adam be it. i never dream of anything like that steel cut fender. doe he mean u to go everywhere. 
he s catch the dog say george look out. we don t count. 
they explore the first or grind floor delight a child play burglar. 
this be like all england she say at last. wonderful but no explanation. you re expect to know it beforehand. now let s try upstairs. 
the stair never creak beneath their foot. from the broad land they enter a long green panel room light by three full length window which overlook the forlorn wreck of a terrace garden and wooded slope beyond. 
the draw room of course. sophie swim up and down it. that mantelpiece orpheus and eurydice be the best of them all. isn t it marvellous. why the room seem furnish with nothing in it. how s that george. 
it s the proportion. i ve notice it. 
i saw a heppelwhite couch once sophie lay her finger to her flush cheek and consider. with two of them one on each side you wouldn t need anything else. except there must be one perfect mirror over that mantelpiece. 
look at that view. it s a frame constable her husband cry. 
no. it s a morland a parody of a morland. but about that couch george. don t you think empire might be good than heppelwhite. dull gold against that pale green. it s a pity they don t make spinet nowadays. 
i believe you can get them. look at that oak wood behind the pine. 
while you sit and play toccata stately at the clavichord sophie hum and head on one. side nod to where the perfect mirror should hang. 
then they find bedroom with dress room and powder closet and step lead up and down box of room round square and octagonal with enrich ceiling and chase door lock. 
now about servant. oh. she have dart up the last stair to the chequer darkness of the top floor where loose tile lay among break lath and the wall be scrawl with name sentiment and hop record. they ve be keep pigeon here she cry. 
and you could drive a buggy through the roof anywhere say george. 
that s what i say the old man cry below them on the stair. not a dry place for my pigeon at all. 
but why be it allow to get like this. say sophie. 
ti with housen a teeth he reply. let em go too far and there s nothing to be do. time be they be mind to sell her but none would buy. she be too far away along from any place. time be they d ha live here theyselves but they take and die. 
here. sophie move beneath the light of a hole in the roof. 
nah none dy here excep fall off rick and such. in london they die. he pluck a lock of wool from his blue smock. they be no staple neither the elphicks nor the moon. shart and brittle all of em. dead they be seventeen year for i ve be here caretakin twenty five. 
who doe all the wool belong to downstairs. george ask. 
to the estate. i ll show you the back part if ye like. you re from america ain t ye. i ve have a son there once myself. they follow him down the main stairway. he pause at the turn and sweep one hand toward the wall. plenty room here for your coffin to come down. seven foot and three men at each end wouldn t brish the paint. if i die in my bed they ll ave to up end me like a milk can. ti all luck dye see. 
he lead them on and on through a maze of back kitchen dairy larder and scullery that melt along cover way into a farm house visibly old than the main build which again ramble out among barn byre pig pen stall and stable to the dead field behind. 
somehow say sophie sit exhaust on an ancient well curb somehow one wouldn t insult these lovely old thing by fill them with hay. 
george look at long stone wall uphold reach of silvery oak weather board. buttress of mix flint and brick. outside stair stone upon arch stone. curve of thatch where grass sprout. roundel of house leeked tile and a huge pave yard populate by two cow and the repentant rambler. he have not think of himself or of the telegraph office for two and a half hour. 
but why say sophie a they go back through the crater of stricken field why be one expect to know everything in england. why do they never tell. 
you mean about the elphicks and the moon. he answer. 
yes and the lawyer and the estate. who be they. i wonder whether those paint floor in the green room be real oak. don t you like u explore thing together good than pompeii. 
george turn once more to look at the view. eight hundred acre go with the house the old man tell me. five farm altogether. rocketts be one of em. 
i like mr. cloke. but what be the old house call. 
george laugh. that s one of the thing you re expect to know. he never tell me. 
the clokes be more communicative. that even and thereafter for a week they give the chapins the official history a one give it to lodger of friar pardon the house and it five farm. but sophie ask so many question and george be so humanly interest that a confidence in the stranger grow they launch with observe and acquire detail into the life and death and do of the elphicks and the moon and their collateral the haylings and the torrells. it be a tale tell serially by cloke in the barn or his wife in the dairy the last chapter reserve for the kitchen o night by the big fire when the two have be half the day explore about the house where old iggulden of the blue smock cackle and chuckle to see them. the motif that sway the character be beyond their comprehension. the fate that shift them be god they have never meet. the sidelight mr. cloke throw on act and incident be more amaze than anything in the record. therefore the chapins listen delightedly and bless mr. shonts. 
but why why why do so and so do so and so. sophie would demand from her seat by the pothook. and mr. cloke would answer smooth her knee for the sake of the place. 
i give it up say george one night in their own room. people don t seem to matter in this country compare to the place they live in. the way she tell it friar pardon be a sort of moloch. 
poor old thing. they have be walk round the farm a usual before tea. no wonder they love it. think of the sacrifice they make for it. jane elphick marry the young torrell to keep it in the family. the octagonal room with the mould ceiling next to the big bedroom be hers. now what do he tell you while he be feed the pig. say sophie. 
about the torrell cousin and the uncle who die in java. they live at burn house behind high pardon where that brook be all block up. 
no. burn house be under high pardon wood before you come to gale anstey sophie correct. 
well old man cloke say. 
sophie throw open the door and call down into the kitchen where the clokes be cover the fire mr. cloke isn t burn house under high pardon. 
yes my dear of course the soft voice answer absently. a cough. i beg your pardon madam. what be it you say. 
never mind. i prefer it the other way sophie laugh and george re tell the miss chapter a she sit on the bed. 
here to day an go to morrow say cloke warningly. they ve pay their first month but we ve only that mr. shonts s letter for guarantee. 
none she send never cheat u yet. it slip out before i think. she s a most humane young lady. they ll be go away in a little. an you ve talk a lot too alfred. 
yes but the elphicks be all dead. no one can bring my loose talk home to me. but why do they stay on and stay on so. 
in due time george and sophie ask each other that question and put it aside. they argue that the climate a pearly blend unlike the hot and cold ferocity of their native land suit them a the thick stillness of the night certainly suit george. he be save even the sight of a metal road which a presumably lead to business wake desire in a man. and the telegraph office at the village of friar pardon where they sell picture post card and pegtops be two walk mile across the field and wood. 
for all that touch his past among his fellow or their remembrance of him he might have be in another planet. and sophie whose life have be very largely spend among husbandless wife of lofty ideal have no wish to leave this present of god. the unhurried meal the foreknowledge of deliciously empty hour to follow the breadth of soft sky under which they walk together and reckon time only by their hunger or thirst. the good grass beneath their foot that cheat the mile. their discovery always together amid the farm griffon rocketts burn house gale anstey and the home farm where iggulden of the blue smock frock would waylay them and they would ransack the old house once more. the long wet afternoon when they tuck up their foot on the bedroom s deep window sill over against the apple tree and talk together a never till then have they find time to talk these thing content her soul and her body thrive. 
have you realize she ask one morning that we ve be here absolutely alone for the last thirty four day. 
have you count them. he ask. 
do you like them. she reply. 
i must have. i didn t think about them. yes i have. six month ago i should have fret myself sick. remember at cairo. i ve only have two or three bad time. be i get good or be it senile decay. 
climate all climate. sophie swing her new buy english boot a she sit on the stile overlook friar pardon behind the clokes s barn. 
one must take hold of thing though he say if it s only to keep one s hand in. his eye do not flicker now a they sweep the empty field. mustn t one. 
lay out a morristown link over gale anstey. i dare say you could hire it. 
no i m not a english a that nor a morristown. cloke say all the farm here could be make to pay. 
well i m anastasia in the treasure of franchard. i m content to be alive and purr. there s no hurry. 
no. he smile. all the same i m go to see after my mail. 
you promise you wouldn t have any. 
there s some business come through that s amuse me. honest. it doesn t get on my nerve at all. 
want a secretary. 
no thank old thing. isn t that quite english. 
too english. go away. but none the le in broad daylight she return the kiss. i m off to pardon. i haven t be to the house for nearly a week. 
how ve you decide to furnish jane elphick s bedroom. he laugh for it have come to be a permanent castle in spain between them. 
black chinese furniture and yellow silk brocade she answer and run downhill. she scatter a few cow at a gap with a flourish of a grind ash that iggulden have cut for her a week ago and sing a she pass under the holmoaks seek the farm house at the back of friar pardon. the old man be not to be find and she knock at his half open door for she need him to fill her idle forenoon. a blue eye sheep dog a new friend and rambler s old enemy crawl out and beseech her to enter. 
iggulden sit in his chair by the fire a thistle spud between his knee his head droop. though she have never see death before her heart that miss a beat tell her that he be dead. she do not speak or cry but stand outside the door and the dog lick her hand. when he throw up his nose she hear herself say. don t howl. please don t begin to howl scottie or i shall run away. 
she hold her grind while the shadow in the rickyard move toward noon. sit after a while on the step by the door her arm round the dog s neck wait till some one should come. she watch the smokeless chimney of friar pardon slash it roof with shadow and the smoke of iggulden s last light fire gradually thin and cease. against her will she fell to wonder how many moon elphicks and torrells have be swing round the turn of the broad mall stair. then she remember the old man s talk of be up end like a milk can and bury her face on scottie s neck. at last a horse s foot clink upon flag rustle in the old grey straw of the rickyard and she find herself face the vicar a figure she have see at church declaim impossibility. sophie be a unitarian. in an unnatural voice. 
he s dead she say without preface. 
old iggulden. i be come for a talk with him. the vicar pass in uncover. ah. she hear him say. heart failure. how long have you be here. 
since a quarter to eleven. she look at her watch earnestly and saw that her hand do not shake. 
i ll sit with him now till the doctor come. d you think you could tell him and yes mr. betts in the cottage with the wistaria next the blacksmith s. i m afraid this ha be rather a shock to you. 
sophie nod and flee toward the village. her body fail her for a moment. she drop beneath a hedge and look back at the great house. in some fashion it silence and stolidity steady her for her errand. 
mr. betts small black eye and dark be almost a unconcerned a friar pardon. 
yi yi of course. dear me. well iggulden he have have his day in my father s time. muriel get me my little blue bag please. yi ma be. they come down like ellum branch in still weather. no warnin at all. muriel my bicycle s be ind the fowlhouse. i ll tell dr. dallas ma be. 
she trundle off on her wheel like a brown bee while sophie heaven above and earth beneath change walk stiffly home to fall over george at his letter in a muddle of laughter and tear. 
it s all quite natural for them she gasp. they come down like ellum branch in still weather. yi ma be. no there wasn t anything in the least horrible only only oh george that poor shiny stick of his between his poor thin knee. i couldn t have bear it if scottie have howl. i didn t know the vicar be so so sensitive. he say he be afraid it be ra rather a shock. mr. betts tell me to go home and i want to collapse on her floor. but i didn t disgrace myself. i i couldn t have leave him could i. 
you re sure you ve take no arm. cry mr. cloke who have hear the news by farm telegraphy which be old but swift than marconi s. 
no. i m perfectly well sophie protest. 
you lay down till tea time. mr. cloke pat her shoulder. they ll be very please though she a ad no proper understandin for twenty year. 
they come before twilight a black beard man in moleskin and a little palsy old woman who chirrup like a wren. 
i m his son say the man to sophie among the lavender bush. we ad a difference twenty year back and didn t speak since. but i m his son all the same and we thank you for the watch. 
i m only glad i happen to be there she answer and from the bottom of her heart she mean it. 
we hear he speak a lot o you one time an another since you come. we thank you kindly the man add. 
be you the son that be in america. she ask. 
yes ma be. on my uncle s farm in connecticut. he be what they call rood master there. 
whereabouts in connecticut. ask george over her shoulder. 
veer holler be the name. i be there six year with my uncle. 
how small the world be. sophie cry. why all my mother s people come from veer hollow. there must be some there still the lashmars. do you ever hear of them. 
i remember hear that name seem to me he answer but his face be blank a the back of a spade. 
a little before dusk a woman in grey stride like a foot soldier and bear on her arm a long pole crash through the orchard call for food. george upon whom the unannounced english work mysteriously flee to the parlour. but mr. cloke come forward beam. sophie could not escape. 
we ve only just hear of it. say the strange turn on her. i ve be out with the otter hound all day. it be a splendidly sportin thing. 
do you er kill. say sophie. she know from book she could not go far wrong here. 
yes a dry bitch seventeen pound be the answer. a splendidly sportin thing of you to do. poor old iggulden. 
oh that. say sophie enlighten. 
if there have be any people at pardon it would never have happen. he d have be look after. but what can you expect from a parcel of london solicitor. 
mr. cloke murmur something. 
no. i m soak from the knee down. if i hang about i shall get chill. a cup of tea mr. cloke and i can eat one of your sandwich a i go. she wipe her weather wear face with a green and yellow silk handkerchief. 
yes my lady. mr. cloke run and return swiftly. 
our land march with pardon for a mile on the south she explain wave the full cup but one ha quite enough to do with one s own people without poachin. still if i d know i d have send dora of course. have you see her this afternoon mr. cloke. no. i wonder whether that girl do sprain her ankle. thank you. it be a formidable hunk of bread and bacon that mr. cloke present. a i be sayin pardon be a scandal. lettin people die like dog. there ought to be people there who do their duty. you ve do yours though there wasn t the faint call upon you. good night. tell dora if she come i ve go on. 
she stride away munch her crust and sophie reel breathless into the parlour to shake the shake george. 
why do you keep catch my eye behind the blind. why didn t you come out and do your duty. 
because i should have burst. do you see the mud on it cheek. he say. 
once. i daren t look again. who be she. 
god a local deity then. anyway she s another of the thing you re expect to know by instinct. 
mr. cloke shock at their levity tell them that it be lady conant wife of sir walter conant baronet a large landholder in the neighbourhood. and if not god. at least his visible providence. george make her talk of that family for an hour. 
laughter say sophie afterward in their own room be the mark of the savage. why couldn t you control your emotion. it s all real to her. 
it s all real to me. that s my trouble he answer in an alter tone. anyway it s real enough to mark time with. don t you think so. 
what d you mean. she ask quickly though she know his voice. 
that i m good. i m well enough to kick. 
what at. 
this. he wave his hand round the one room. i must have something to play with till i m fit for work again. 
ah. she sit on the bed and lean forward her hand clasp. i wonder if it s good for you. 
we ve be good here than anywhere he go on slowly. one could always sell it again. 
she nod gravely but her eye sparkle. 
the only thing that worry me be what happen this morning. i want to know how you feel about it. if it s on your nerve in the least we can have the old farm at the back of the house pull down or perhaps it ha spoil the notion for you. 
pull it down. she cry. you ve no business faculty. why that s where we could live while we re put the big house in order. it s almost under the same roof. no. what happen this morning seem to be more of a of a lead than anything else. there ought to be people at pardon. lady conant s quite right. 
i be think more of the wood and the road. i could double the value of the place in six month. 
what do they want for it. she shake her head and her loosen hair fell glowingly about her cheek. 
seventy five thousand dollar. they ll take sixty eight. 
le than half what we pay for our old yacht when we marry. and we didn t have a good time in her. you be. 
well i discover i be too much of an american to be content to be a rich man s son. you aren t blame me for that. 
oh no. only it be a very businesslike honeymoon. how far be you along with the deal george. 
i can mail the deposit on the purchase money to morrow morning and we can have the thing complete in a fortnight or three week if you say so. 
friar pardon friar pardon. sophie chant rapturously her dark gray eye big with delight. all the farm. gale anstey burn house rocketts the home farm and griffon. sure you ve get em all. 
sure. he smile. 
and the wood. high pardon wood low pardon suttons dutton s shaw reuben s ghyll maxey s ghyll and both the oak hanger. sure you ve get em all. 
every last stick. why you know them a well a i do. he laugh. they say there s five thousand a thousand pound worth of lumber timber they call it in the hanger alone. 
mr. cloke s oven must be mend first thing and the kitchen roof. i think i ll have all this whitewash sophie break in point to the ceiling. the whole place be a scandal. lady conant be quite right. george when do you begin to fall in love with the house. in the greenroom that first day. i do. 
i m not in love with it. one must do something to mark time till one s fit for work. 
or when we stand under the oak and the door open. oh. ought i to go to poor iggulden s funeral. she sigh with utter happiness. 
wouldn t they call it a liberty now. say he. 
but i like him. 
but you didn t own him at the date of his death. 
that wouldn t keep me away. only they make such a fuss about the watch she catch her breath it might be ostentatious from that point of view too. oh george she reach for his hand we re two little orphan move in world not realize and we shall make some bad break. but we re go to have the time of our life. 
we ll run up to london to morrow and see if we can hurry those english law solicitor. i want to get to work. 
they go. they suffer many thing ere they return across the field in a fly one saturday night nurse a two by two and a half box of deed and map lawful owner of friar pardon and the five decay farm therewith. 
i do most sincerely ope and trust you ll be appy madam mr. cloke gasp when she be tell the news by the kitchen fire. 
goodness. it isn t a marriage. sophie exclaim a little awe. for to them the joke which to an american mean work be only just begin. 
if it s take in a proper spirit mr. cloke s eye turn toward her oven. 
send and have that mend to morrow sophie whisper. 
we couldn t elp notice say cloke slowly from the time you walk there that you an your lady be draw to it but but i don t know a we ever precisely think his wife s glance check him. 
that we be that sort of people say george. we aren t sure of it ourselves yet. 
perhaps say cloke rub his knee just for the sake of say something perhaps you ll park it. 
what s that. say george. 
turn it all into a fine park like violet hill he jerk a thumb to westward that mr. sangres buy. it be four farm and mr. sangres make a fine park of them with a herd of faller deer. 
then it wouldn t be friar pardon say sophie. would it. 
i don t know a i ve ever hear pardon be ever anything but wheat an wool. only some gentleman say that park be le trouble than tenant. he laugh nervously. but the gentry o course they keep on pretty much a they be use to. 
i see say sophie. how do mr. sangres make his money. 
i never rightly hear. it be pepper an spice or it may ha be glove. no. glove be sir reginald li at marley end. spice be mr. sangres. he s a brazilian gentleman very sunburnt like. 
be sure o one thing. you win t ave any trouble say mr. cloke just before they go to bed. 
now the news of the purchase be tell to mr. and mr. cloke alone at p. m. of a saturday. none leave the farm till they set out for church next morning. yet when they reach the church and be about to slip aside into their usual seat a little beyond the font where they could see the red furred tail of the bellropes waggle and twist at ring time they be sweep forward irresistibly a cloke on either flank. and yet they have not walk with the clokes. upon the ever retire bosom of a black gown verger who usher them into a room of a pew at the head of the leave aisle under the pulpit. 
this he sigh reproachfully be the pardon pew and shut them in. 
they could see little more than the choir boy in the chancel but to the root of the hair of their neck they felt the congregation behind mercilessly devour them by look. 
when the wicked man turneth away. the strong alien voice of the priest vibrate under the hammer beam roof and a loneliness unfelt before swamp their heart a they search for place in the unfamiliar church of england service. the lord s prayer our father which art set the seal on that desolation. sophie find herself think how in other land their purchase would long ere this have be discuss from every point of view in a dozen print forget that george for month have not be allow to glance at those black and bellow head line. here be nothing but silence not even hostility. the game be up to them. the other player hide their card and wait. suspense she felt be in the air and when her sight clear saw indeed a mural tablet of a footle bird brood upon the carven motto wayte awhyle wayte awhyle. 
at the litany george have trouble with an unstable hassock and draw the slip of carpet under the pewseat. sophie push her end back also and shut her eye against a burn that felt like tear. when she open them she be look at her mother s maiden name fairly carve on a blue flagstone on the pew floor. ellen lashmar. ob. aetat. 
she nudge george and point. shelter a they kneel they look for more knowledge but the rest of the slab be blank. 
ever hear of her. he whisper. 
never know any of u come from here. 
coincidence. 
perhaps. but it make me feel good and she smile and wink away a tear on her lash and take his hand while they pray for all woman labour of child not in the peril of childbirth. and the sparrow who have find their way through the guard behind the glass window chirp above the fade gild and alabaster family tree of the conants. 
the baronet s pew be on the right of the aisle. after service it inhabitant move forth without haste but so a to block effectively a dusky person with a large family who champ in their rear. 
spice i think say sophie deeply delight a the sangres close up after the conants. let em get away george. 
but when they come out many folk whose eye be one still linger by the lychgate. 
i want to see if any more lashmars be bury here say sophie. 
not now. this seem to be show day. come home quickly he reply. 
a group of family the clokes a little apart open to let them through. the men salute with jerky nod the woman with remnant of a curtsey. only iggulden s son his mother on his arm lift his hat a sophie pass. 
your people say the clear voice of lady conant in her ear. 
i suppose so say sophie blush for they be within two yard of her. but it be not a question. 
then that child look a if it be come down with mumps. you ought to tell the mother she shouldn t have bring it to church. 
i can t leave er behind my lady the woman say. she d set the ouse afire in a minute she s that forward with the match. ain t you maudie dear. 
ha dr. dallas see her. 
not yet my lady. 
he must. you can t get away of course. m m. my idiotic maid be come in for her teeth to morrow at twelve. she shall pick her up at gale anstey isn t it. at eleven. 
yes. thank you very much my lady. 
i oughtn t to have do it say lady conant apologetically but there ha be no one at pardon for so long that you ll forgive my poach. now can t you lunch with u. the vicar usually come too. i don t use the horse on a sunday she glance at the brazilian s silver plat chariot. it s only a mile across the field. 
you you re very kind say sophie hat herself because her lip tremble. 
my dear the compel tone drop to a soothe gurgle d you suppose i don t know how it feel to come to a strange county country i should say away from one s own people. when i first leave the shire i m shropshire you know i cry for a day and a night. but fret doesn t make loneliness any good. oh here s dora. she do sprain her leg that day. 
i m a lame a a tree still say the tall maiden frankly. you ought to go out with the otter hound mr. chapin. i believe they re draw your water next week. 
sir walter have already lead off george and the vicar come up on the other side of sophie. there be no escape the swift procession or the leisurely lunch where talk come and go in low voice eddy that have the village for their centre. sophie hear the vicar and sir walter address her husband lightly a chapin. she also remember many woman know in a previous life who habitually address their husband a mr. such an one. after lunch lady conant talk to her explicitly of maternity a that be achieve in cottage and farm house remote from aid and of the duty thereto of the mistress of pardon. 
a gate in a beech hedge reach across triple lawn let them out before tea time into the unkempt south side of their land. 
i want your hand please say sophie a soon a they be safe among the beech bole and the lawless holly. d you remember the old maid in providence and the guitar who hear the commissary swear and hardly reckon herself a maiden lady afterward. because i m a relative of hers. lady conant be. 
do you find out anything about the lashmars. he interrupt. 
i didn t ask. i m go to write to aunt sydney about it first. oh lady conant say something at lunch about their have buy some land from some lashmars a few year ago. i find it be at the begin of last century. 
what do you say. 
i say really how interest. like that. i m not go to push myself forward. i ve be hear about mr. sangres s effort in that direction. and you. i couldn t see you behind the flower. be it very deep water dear. 
george mop a brow already brown by outdoor exposure. 
oh no dead easy he answer. i ve buy friar pardon to prevent sir walter s bird stray. 
a cock pheasant scuttered through the dry leaf and explode almost under their foot. sophie jump. 
that s one of em say george calmly. 
well your nerve be good at any rate say she. do you tell em you d buy the thing to play with. 
no. that be where my nerve break down. i only make one bad break i think. i say i couldn t see why hire land to men to farm wasn t a much a business proposition a anything else. 
and what do they say. 
they smile. i shall know what that smile mean some day. they don t waste their smile. d you see that track by gale anstey. 
they look down from the edge of the hanger over a cup like hollow. people by two and three in their sunday best file slowly along the path that connect farm to farm. 
i ve never see so many on our land before say sophie. why be it. 
to show u we mustn t shut up their right of way. 
those cow track we ve be use cross lot. say sophie forcibly. 
yes. any one of em would cost u two thousand pound each in legal expense to close. 
but we don t want to she say. 
the whole community would fight if we do. 
but it s our land. we can do what we like. 
it s not our land. we ve only pay for it. we belong to it and it belong to the people our people they call em. i ve be to lunch with the english too. 
they pass slowly from one bracken dot field to the next flush with pride of ownership plot alteration and restoration at each turn. halt in their track to argue spread apart to embrace two view at once or close in to consider one. couple move out of their way but smile covertly. 
we shall make some bad break he say at last. 
together though. you win t let anyone else in will you. 
except the contractor. this syndicate handle this proposition by it little lone. 
but you might feel the want of some one she insist. 
i shall but it will be you. it s business sophie but it s go to be good fun. 
please god she answer flush and cry to herself a they go back to tea. it s worth it. oh it s worth it. 
the repair and move into friar pardon be business of the most vary and search but all do english fashion without friction. time and money alone be ask. the rest lay in the hand of beneficent adviser from london or spirit male and female call up by mr. and mr. cloke from the waste of the farm. in the centre stand george and sophie a little aghast their interest reach out on every side. 
i ain t sayin anything against londoner say cloke self appoint clerk of the out work consult engineer head of the immigration bureau and superintendent of wood and forest. but your own people win t go about to make more than a fair profit out of you. 
how be one to know. say george. 
five year from now or so on maybe you ll be lookin over your first year s account and knowin what you ll know then you ll say. well billy beartup or old cloke a it might be do me proper when i be new. no man like to have that sort of thing lay up against him. 
i think i see say george. but five year be a long time to look ahead. 
i doubt if that oak billy beartup throw in reuben s ghyll will be fit for her drawin room floor in le than seven cloke drawl. 
yes that s my work say sophie. billy beartup of griffon a woodman by train and birth a tenant farmer by misfortune of marriage have lay his broad axe at her foot a month before. sorry if i ve commit you to another eternity. 
and we shan t even know where we ve go wrong with your new carriage drive before that time either say cloke ever anxious to keep the balance true with an ounce or two in sophie s favour. the past four month have teach george good than to reply. the carriage road wind up the hill be his present keen interest. they set off to look at it and the import american scraper which have blight the none too sunny soul of skim winsh the carter. 
but young iggulden be in charge now and under his guidance buller and robert the great horse move mountain. 
you lif her like that an you tip her like that he explain to the gang. my uncle he be roadmaster in connecticut. 
be they road yonder. say skim sit under the laurel. 
no good than accommodation road. dirt they call em. they d suit you skim. 
why. say the incautious skim. 
cause you d take no hurt when you fall out of your cart drink on a saturday be the answer. 
i didn t last time neither skim roar. 
after the loud laugh old whybarne of gale anstey pip feebly well dirt or no dirt there s no denyin chapin know a good job when he see it. e don t build one day and dee stroy the next like that nigger sangres. 
she s the one that know her own mind say pinky brother to skim winsh and a napoleon among carter who have help to bring the grand piano across the field in the autumn rain. 
she have ought to say iggulden. whoa buller. she s a lashmar. they never be double think. 
oh you find that. ha the answer come from your uncle. say skim doubtful whether so remote a land a america have post. 
the others look at him scornfully. skim be always a day behind the fair. iggulden rest from his labour. she s a lashmar right enough. i start up to write to my uncle at once the month after she say her folk come from veer holler. 
where there ain t any road. skim interrupt but none laugh. 
my uncle he marry an american woman for his second and she take it up like a like the coroner. she s a lashmar out of the old lashmar place fore they sell to conants. she ain t no toot hill lashmar nor any o the crayford lot. her folk come out of the grind here neither chalk nor forest but wildishers. they sail over to america i ve get it all writ down by my uncle s woman in eighteen hundred an nothing. my uncle say they re all slow begetter like. 
would they be gentry yonder now. skim ask. 
nah there s no gentry in america no matter how long you re there. it s against their law. there s only rich and poor allow. they ve be lawyer and such like over yonder for a hundred year but she s a lashmar for all that. 
lord. what s a hundred year. say whybarne who have see seventy eight of them. 
an they write too from yonder my uncle s woman write that you can still tell em by headmark. their hair s foxy red still an they throw out when they walk. he s in toe tread like a gipsy. but you watch an you ll see er throw out like a colt. 
your trace want take up. pinky s large ear have catch the sound of voice and a the two break through the laurel the men be hard at work their eye on sophie s foot. 
she have be le fortunate in her inquiry than iggulden for her aunt sydney of meriden. a badge and certificate daughter of the revolution to boot. answer her inquiry with a two page discourse on patriotism the leaflet of a village improvement society of which she be president and a demand for an overdue subscription to a factory girl read circle. sophie burn it all in the orpheus and eurydice grate and keep her own counsel. 
what i want to know say george when spring be come and the garden need think be who will ever pay me for my labour. i ve put in at least half a million dollar worth already. 
sure you re not take too much out of yourself. his wife ask. 
oh no. i haven t be conscious of myself all winter. he look at his brown english gaiter and smile. it s all behind me now. i believe i could sit down and think of all that those month before we sail. 
don t ah don t. she cry. 
but i must go back one day. you don t want to keep me out of business always or do you. he end with a nervous laugh. 
sophie sigh a she draw her own grind ash. of old iggulden s cut. from the hall rack. 
aren t you overdo it too. you look a little tire he say. 
you make me tire. i m go to rocketts to see mr. cloke about mary. this be the sister of the telegraphist promote to be sew maid at pardon. come. 
i m due at burn house to see about the new well. by the way there s a sore throat at gale anstey. 
that s my province. don t interfere. the whybarne child always have sore throat. they do it for jujube. 
keep away from gale anstey till i make sure honey. cloke ought to have tell me. 
these people don t tell. haven t you learn that yet. but i ll obey me lord. see you late. 
she set off afoot for within the three main road that bound the blunt triangle of the estate. even by night one could scarcely hear the cart on them. wheel be not use except for farm work. the footpath serve all other purpose. and though at first they have plan improvement they have soon fall in with the custom of their hide kingdom and move about the soft foot way by woodland hedgerow and shaw a freely a the rabbit. indeed for the most part sophie walk bareheaded beneath her helmet of chestnut hair. but she have be plague of late by vague toothache which she explain to mr. cloke who ask some question. how it come about sophie never know but after a while behold mr. cloke s arm be about her waist and her head be on that deep bosom behind the shut kitchen door. 
my dear. my dear. the elder woman almost sob. an d you mean to tell me you never suspicioned. why why where be you ever teach anything at all. of course it be. it s what we ve be only waitin for all of u. time and again i ve say to lady she check herself. an now we shall be a we should be. 
but but but sophie whimper. 
an to see you buildin your nest so busy piano and book an never thinkin of a nursery. 
no more i do. sophie sit bolt upright and begin to laugh. 
time enough yet. the finger tap thoughtfully on the broad knee. but they must be strange mind folk over yonder with you. have you think to send for your mother. she dead. my dear my dear. never mind. she ll be happy where she know. ti god s work. an we be only waitin for it for you ve never fail in your duty yet. it ain t your way. what do you say about my mary s do. mr. cloke s face harden a she press her chin on sophie s forehead. if any of your girl think to be ave arbitrary now i ll but they win t my dear. i ll see they do their duty too. be sure you ll ave no trouble. 
when sophie walk back across the field heaven and earth change about her a on the day of old iggulden s death. for an instant she think of the wide turn of the staircase and the new ivory white paint that no coffin corner could scar but presently the shadow pass in a pure wonder and bewilderment that make her reel. she lean against one of their new gate and look over their land for some other stay. 
well she say resignedly half aloud we must try to make him feel that he isn t a third in our party and turn the corner that look over friar pardon giddy sick and faint. 
of a sudden the house they have buy for a whim stand up a she have never see it before low front broad wing ample prepare by course of generation for all such thing. a it have steady her when it lay desolate so now that it have mean from their few month of life within it soothe and promise good. she go alone and quickly into the hall and kiss either door post whisper. be good to me. you know. you ve never fail in your duty yet. 
when the matter be explain to george he would have sail at once to their own land but this sophie forbid. 
i don t want science she say. i just want to be love and there isn t time for that at home. besides she add look out of the window it would be desertion. 
george be force to soothe himself with link friar pardon to the telegraph system of great britain by telephone three quarter of a mile of pole put in by whybarne and a few friend. one of these be a foreigner from the next parish. say he when the line be be run. there s an old ellum right in our road. shall u throw her. 
toot hill parish folk neither grace nor good luck god help em. old whybarne shout the local proverb from three pole down the line. we ain t goin to lay any axe iron to coffin wood here not till we know where we be yet awhile. swing round er swing round. 
to this day then that sudden kink in the straight line across the upper pasture remain a mystery to sophie and george. nor can they tell why skim winsh who come to his cottage under dutton shaw most musically drink at. p. m of every saturday night a his father have do before him sing no more at the bottom of the garden step where sophie always fear he would break his neck. the path be undoubtedly an ancient right of way and at. p. m. on saturday skim remember it be his duty to posterity to keep it open till mr. cloke speak to him once. she speak likewise to her daughter mary sew maid at pardon and to mary s best new friend the five foot seven import london house maid who teach mary to trim hat and find the country dullish. 
but there be no noise at no time be there any noise and when sophie walk abroad she meet no one in her path unless she have signify a wish that way. then they appear to protest that all be well with them and their child their chicken their roof their water supply and their son in the police or the railway service. 
but don t you find it dull dear. say george loyally do his best not to worry a the month go by. 
i ve be so busy put my house in order i haven t have time to think say she. do you. 
no no. if i could only be sure of you. 
she turn on the green draw room s couch. it be empire not heppelwhite after all. and lay aside a list of linen and blanket. 
it ha change everything hasn t it. she whisper. 
oh lord yes. but i still think if we go back to baltimore. 
and miss our first real summer together. no thank you me lord. 
but we re absolutely alone. 
isn t that what i m do my best to remedy. don t you worry. i like it like it to the marrow of my little bone. you don t realize what her house mean to a woman. we think we be live in it last year but we hadn t begin to. don t you rejoice in your study george. 
i prefer be here with you. he sit down on the floor by the couch and take her hand. 
seven she say a the french clock strike. year before last you d just be come back from business. 
he wince at the recollection then laugh. business. i ve be at work ten solid hour to day. 
where do you lunch. with the conants. 
no. at dutton shaw sit on a log with my foot in a swamp. but we ve find out where the old spring be and we re go to pipe it down to gale anstey next year. 
i ll come and see to morrow. oh please open the door dear. i want to look down the passage. isn t that corner by the stair head lovely where the sun strike in. she look through half close eye at the vista of ivory white and pale green all steep in liquid gold. 
there s a step out of jane elphick s bedroom she go on and his first step in the world ought to be up. i shouldn t wonder if those people hadn t put it there on purpose. george will it make any odds to you if he s a girl. 
he answer a he have many time before that his interest be his wife not the child. 
then you re the only person who think so. she laugh. don t be silly dear. it s expect. i know. it s my duty. i shan t be able to look our people in the face if i fail. 
what concern be it of theirs confound em. 
you ll see. luckily the tradition of the house be boy mr. cloke say so i m provide for. shall you ever begin to understand these people. i shan t. 
and we buy it for fun for fun. he groan. and here we be hold up for goodness know how long. 
why. be you think of sell it. he do not answer. do you remember the second mr. chapin. she demand. 
this be a bold brazen little black browed woman a widow for choice who on sophie s death be guilefully to marry george for his wealth and ruin him in a year. george be busy sophie have invent her some two year after her marriage and conceive she be alone among wife in so do. 
you aren t go to bring her up again. he ask anxiously. 
i only want to say that i should hate any one who buy pardon ten time bad than i use to hate the second mr. chapin. think what we ve put into it of our two self. 
at least a couple of million dollar. i know i could have make he break off. 
the beast. she go on. they d be sure to build a red brick lodge at the gate and cut the lawn up for bed out. you must leave instruction in your will that he s never to do that george win t you. 
he laugh and take her hand again but say nothing till it be time to dress. then he mutter what the devil use be a man s country to him when he can t do business in it. 
friar pardon stand faithful to it tradition. at the appoint time be bear not that third in their party to whom sophie mean to be so kind but a godling. in beauty it be manifest excel eros a in wisdom confucius. an enhancer of delight a renewer of companionship and an interpreter of destiny. this last george do not realise till he meet lady conant stride through dutton shaw a few day after the event. 
my dear fellow she cry and slap him heartily on the back i can t tell you how glad we all be. oh she ll be all right. there s never be any trouble over the birth of an heir at pardon. now where the dooce be it. she felt largely in her leather boundskirt and draw out a small silver mug. i send a note to your wife about it but my silly as of a groom forget to take this. you can save me a tramp. give her my love. she march off amid her guard of grave airedale. 
the mug be wear and dent. above the twin initial g. l. be the crest of a footle bird and the motto. wayte awhyle wayte awhyle. 
that s the other end of the riddle sophie whisper when he saw her that even. read her note. the english write beautiful note. 
the warm of welcome to your little man. i hope he will appreciate his native land now he ha come to it. though you have say nothing we cannot of course look on him a a little strange and so i be send him the old lashmar christen mug. it ha be with u since gregory lashmar your great grandmother s brother. 
george star at his wife. 
go on she twinkle from the pillow. 
mother s brother sell his place to walter s family. we seem to have acquire some of your household god at that time but nothing survive except the mug and the old cradle which i find in the pot shed and be have put in order for you. i hope little george lashmar he will be too win t he. will live to see his grandchild cut their teeth on his mug. 
affectionately yours alice conant. 
p. s. how quiet you ve keep about it all. 
well i m. 
don t swear say sophie. bad for the infant mind. 
but how in the world do she get at it. have you ever say a word about the lashmars. 
you know the only time to young iggulden at rocketts when iggulden die. 
your great grandmother s brother. she s trace the whole connection more than your aunt sydney could do. what doe she mean about our keep quiet. 
sophie s eye sparkle. i ve think that out too. we ve get back at the english at last. can t you see that she think that we think my mother s be a lashmar be one of those thing we d expect the english to find out for themselves and that s impress her. she turn the mug in her white hand and sigh happily. wayte awhyle wayte awhyle. that s not a bad motto george. it s be worth it. 
but still i don t quite see. 
i shouldn t wonder if they don t think our come here be part of a deep lay scheme to be near our ancestor. they d understand that. and look how they ve accept u all of them. 
be we so undesirable in ourselves. george grunt. 
be just me lord. that wretched sangres man ha twice our money. can you see marm conant slap him between the shoulder. not by a jugful. the poor beast doesn t exist. 
do you think it s that then. he look toward the cot by the fire where the godling snort. 
the minute i get well i shall find out from mr. cloke what every lashmar give in dole. that s nice than tip. every time a lashmite be bear. i ve do my duty thus far but there s much expect of me. 
enter here mr. cloke and hang worship over the cot. they show her the mug and her face shine. oh now lady conant s send it it ll be all proper ma be win t it. george of course he d have to be but seein what he be we be hopin all your people be hopin it ud be lashmar too and that ud just round it out. a very andsome mug quite unique i should imagine. wayte awhyle wayte awhyle. that s true with the lashmars i ve hear. very slow to fill their house they be. most like master george win t open be nursery till he s thirty. 
poor lamb. cry sophie. but how do you know my folk be lashmars. 
mr. cloke think deeply. i m sure i can t quite say ma be but i ve a belief likely that it be something you may have let drop to young iggulden when you be at rocketts. that may have be what give u an inkling. an so it come out one thing in the way o talk lead to another and those american people at veer holler be very obligin with news i m tell ma be. 
great scott. say george under his breath. and this be the simple peasant. 
yi mr. cloke go on. an cloke be only wonderin this afternoon your pillow s slip my dear you mustn t lie that a way just for the sake o sayin something whether you wouldn t think well now of get the lashmar farm back sir. they don t rightly round off sir walter s estate. they come caterin across u more. cloke e ud be glad to show you over any day. 
but sir walter doesn t want to sell doe he. 
we can find out from his bailiff sir but with cold contempt i think that train nurse be just comin up from her dinner so m afraid we ll ave to ask you sir. now master george ai ie. wake a litty minute lammie. 
a few month late the three of them be down at the brook in the gale anstey wood to consider the rebuild of a footbridge carry away by spring flood. george lashmar chapin want all the bluebell on god s earth that day to eat and sophie adore him in a voice like to the coo of a dive. so business be delay. 
here s the place say his father at last among the water forget me nots. but where the deuce be the larch pole cloke. i tell you to have them down here ready. 
we ll get em down if f you say so cloke answer with a thrust of the underlip they both know. 
but i do say so. what on earth have you bring that timber tug here for. we aren t build a railway bridge. why in america half a dozen two by four bit would be ample. 
i don t know nothin about that say cloke. 
an i ve nothin to say against larch if you want to make a temp ry job of it. i ain t ere to tell you what isn t so sir. an you can t say i ever come creepin up on you or tryin to lead you further in than you set out. 
a year ago george would have dance with impatience. now he scrap a little mud off his old gaiter with his spud and wait. 
all i say be that you can put up larch and make a temp ry job of it. and by the time the young master s marry it ll have to be do again. now i ve bring down a couple of a sweet six by eight oak timber a we ve ever draw. you put em in an it s off your mind or good an all. t other way i don t say it ain t right i m only just sayin what i think but t other way he ll no sooner be marry than we ll lave it all to do again. you ve no call to regard my word but you can t get out of that. 
no say george after a pause. i ve be realise that for some time. make it oak then. we can t get out of it. 
the recall. 
i be the land of their father in me the virtue stay. i will bring back my child after certain day. under their foot in the grass my cling magic run. they shall return a stranger they shall remain a son. over their head in the branch of their new buy ancient tree i weave an incantation and draw them to my knee. scent of smoke in the even smell of rain in the night the hour the day and the season order their soul aright. till i make plain the mean of all my thousand year till i fill their heart with knowledge while i fill their eye with tear. 
garm a hostage. 
one night a very long time ago i drive to an indian military cantonment call mian mir to see amateur theatrical. at the back of the infantry barrack a soldier his cap over one eye rush in front of the horse and shout that he be a dangerous highway robber. a a matter of fact he be a friend of mine so i tell him to go home before any one catch him. but he fell under the pole and i hear voice of a military guard in search of some one. 
the driver and i coax him into the carriage drive home swiftly undress him and put him to bed where he wake next morning with a sore headache very much ashamed. when his uniform be clean and dry and he have be shave and wash and make neat i drive him back to barrack with his arm in a fine white sling and report that i have accidentally run over him. i do not tell this story to my friend s sergeant who be a hostile and unbelieving person but to his lieutenant who do not know u quite so well. 
three day late my friend come to call and at his heel slobber and fawn one of the fine bull terrier of the old fashion breed two part bull and one terrier that i have ever set eye on. he be pure white with a fawn colour saddle just behind his neck and a fawn diamond at the root of his thin whippy tail. i have admire him distantly for more than a year. and vixen my own fox terrier know him too but do not approve. 
e s for you say my friend. but he do not look a though he like part with him. 
nonsense. that dog s worth more than most men stanley i say. 
e s that and more. tention. 
the dog rise on his hind leg and stand upright for a full minute. 
eye right. 
he sit on his haunch and turn his head sharp to the right. at a sign he rise and bark thrice. then he shake hand with his right paw and bound lightly to my shoulder. here he make himself into a necktie limp and lifeless hang down on either side of my neck. i be tell to pick him up and throw him in the air. he fell with a howl and hold up one leg. 
part o the trick say his owner. you re go to die now. dig yourself your little grave an shut your little eye. 
still limp the dog hobble to the garden edge dig a hole and lay down in it. when tell that he be cure he jump out wag his tail and whine for applause. he be put through half a dozen other trick such a show how he would hold a man safe. i be that man and he sit down before me his teeth bar ready to spring. and how he would stop eat at the word of command. i have no more than finish praise him when my friend make a gesture that stop the dog a though he have be shoot take a piece of blue rule canteen paper from his helmet hand it to me and run away while the dog look after him and howl. i read. 
sir i give you the dog because of what you get me out of. he be the best i know for i make him myself and he be a good a a man. please do not give him too much to eat and please do not give him back to me for i m not go to take him if you will keep him. so please do not try to give him back any more. i have keep his name back so you can call him anything and he will answer but please do not give him back. he can kill a man a easy a anything but please do not give him too much meat. he know more than a man. 
vixen sympathetically join her shrill little yap to the bull terrier s despair cry and i be annoy for i know that a man who care for dog be one thing but a man who love one dog be quite another. dog be at the best no more than verminous vagrant self scratcher foul feeder and unclean by the law of moses and mohammed. but a dog with whom one life alone for at least six month in the year. a free thing tie to you so strictly by love that without you he will not stir or exercise. a patient temperate humorous wise soul who know your mood before you know them yourself be not a dog under any rule. 
i have vixen who be all my dog to me. and i felt what my friend must have felt at tear out his heart in this style and leave it in my garden. however the dog understand clearly enough that i be his master and do not follow the soldier. a soon a he draw breath i make much of him and vixen yell with jealousy fly at him. have she be of his own sex he might have cheer himself with a fight but he only look worriedly when she nip his deep iron side lay his heavy head on my knee and howl anew. i mean to dine at the club that night. but a darkness draw in and the dog snuff through the empty house like a child try to recover from a fit of sob i felt that i could not leave him to suffer his first even alone. so we feed at home vixen on one side and the strange dog on the other. she watch his every mouthful and say explicitly what she think of his table manner which be much good than hers. 
it be vixen s custom till the weather grow hot to sleep in my bed her head on the pillow like a christian. and when morning come i would always find that the little thing have brace her foot against the wall and push me to the very edge of the cot. this night she hurry to bed purposefully every hair up one eye on the strange who have drop on a mat in a helpless hopeless sort of way all four foot spread out sigh heavily. she settle her head on the pillow several time to show her little air and grace and strike up her usual whiney sing song before slumber. the strange dog softly edge toward me. i put out my hand and he lick it. instantly my wrist be between vixen s teeth and her warn aaarh. say a plainly a speech that if i take any further notice of the strange she would bite. 
i catch her behind her fat neck with my leave hand shake her severely and say. 
vixen if you do that again you ll be put into the verandah. now remember. 
she understand perfectly but the minute i release her she mouth my right wrist once more and wait with her ear back and all her body flatten ready to bite. the big dog s tail thump the floor in a humble and peace make way. 
i grab vixen a second time lift her out of bed like a rabbit. she hat that and yell. and a i have promise set her out in the verandah with the bat and the moonlight. at this she howl. then she use coarse language not to me but to the bullterrier till she cough with exhaustion. then she run round the house try every door. then she go off to the stable and bark a though some one be steal the horse which be an old trick of hers. last she return and her snuff yelp say i ll be good. let me in and i ll be good. 
she be admit and fly to her pillow. when she be quiet i whisper to the other dog you can lie on the foot of the bed. the bull jump up at once and though i felt vixen quiver with rage she know good than to protest. so we sleep till the morning and they have early breakfast with me bite for bite till the horse come round and we go for a ride. i don t think the bull have ever follow a horse before. he be wild with excitement and vixen a usual squeal and scuttered and scoot and take charge of the procession. 
there be one corner of a village near by which we generally pass with caution because all the yellow pariah dog of the place gather about it. 
they be half wild starve beast and though utter coward yet where nine or ten of them get together they will mob and kill and eat an english dog. i keep a whip with a long lash for them. 
that morning they attack vixen who perhaps of design have move from beyond my horse s shadow. 
the bull be plough along in the dust fifty yard behind roll in his run and smile a bull terrier will. i hear vixen squeal. half a dozen of the cur close in on her. a white streak come up behind me. a cloud of dust rise near vixen and when it clear i saw one tall pariah with his back break and the bull wrench another to earth. vixen retreat to the protection of my whip and the bull paddle back smile more than ever cover with the blood of his enemy. that decide me to call him garin of the bloody breast who be a great person in his time or garm for short. so lean forward i tell him what his temporary name would be. he look up while i repeat it and then race away. i shout garin. he stop race back and come up to ask my will. 
then i saw that my soldier friend be right and that that dog know and be worth more than a man. at the end of the ride i give an order which vixen know and hat. go away and get wash. i say. garin understand some part of it and vixen interpret the rest and the two trot off together soberly. when i go to the back verandah vixen have be wash snowy white and be very proud of herself but the dog boy would not touch garm on any account unless i stand by. so i wait while he be be scrub and garm with the soap cream on the top of his broad head look at me to make sure that this be what i expect him to endure. he know perfectly that the dog boy be only obey order. 
another time i say to the dog boy you will wash the great dog with vixen when i send them home. 
doe he know. say the dog boy who understand the way of dog. 
garm i say another time you will be wash with vixen. 
i know that garm understand. indeed next wash day when vixen a usual flee under my bed garm star at the doubtful dog boy in the verandah stalk to the place where he have be wash last time and stand rigid in the tub. 
but the long day in my office try him sorely. we three would drive off in the morning at half past eight and come home at six or late. vixen know the routine of it go to sleep under my table. but the confinement eat into garm s soul. he generally sit on the verandah look out on the mall. and well i know what he expect. 
sometimes a company of soldier would move along on their way to the fort and garm roll forth to inspect them. or an officer in uniform enter into the office and it be pitiful to see poor garm s welcome to the cloth not the man. he would leap at him and sniff and bark joyously then run to the door and back again. one afternoon i hear him bay with a full throat a thing i have never hear before and he disappear. when i drive into my garden at the end of the day a soldier in white uniform scramble over the wall at the far end and the garm that meet me be a joyous dog. this happen twice or thrice a week for a month. 
i pretend not to notice but garm know and vixen know. he would glide homewards from the office about four o clock a though he be only go to look at the scenery and this he do so quietly that but for vixen i should not have notice him. the jealous little dog under the table would give a sniff and a snort just loud enough to call my attention to the flight. garm might go out forty time in the day and vixen would never stir but when he slink off to see his true master in my garden she tell me in her own tongue. that be the one sign she make to prove that garm do not altogether belong to the family. they be the best of friend at all time but vixen explain that i be never to forget garm do not love me a she love me. 
i never expect it. the dog be not my dog could never be my dog and i know he be a miserable a his master who tramp eight mile a day to see him. so it seem to me that the sooner the two be reunite the good for all. one afternoon i send vixen home alone in the dog cart. garm have go before. and ride over to cantonment to find another friend of mine who be an irish soldier and a great friend of the dog s master. 
i explain the whole case and wind up with. 
and now stanley s in my garden cry over his dog. why doesn t he take him back. they re both unhappy. 
unhappy. there s no sense in the little man any more. but ti his fit. 
what be his fit. he travel fifty mile a week to see the brute and he pretend not to notice me when he see me on the road. and i m a unhappy a he be. make him take the dog back. 
it s his penance he s set himself. i tell him by way of a joke afther you d run over him so convenient that night whin he be drink i say if he be a catholic he d do penance. off he go wid that fit in his little head an a dose of fever an nothin would suit but givin you the dog a a hostage. 
hostage for what. i don t want hostage from stanley. 
for his good behaviour. he s keepin straight now the way it s no pleasure to associate wid him. 
ha he take the pledge. 
if twas only that i need not care. ye can take the pledge for three month on an off. he sez he ll never see the dog again an so mark you he ll keep straight for evermore. ye know his fit. well this be wan of them. how s the dog takin it. 
like a man. he s the best dog in india. can t you make stanley take him back. 
i can do no more than i have do. but ye know his fit. he s just doin his penance. what will he do when he go to the hill. the doctor s put him on the list. 
it be the custom in india to send a certain number of invalid from each regiment up to station in the himalaya for the hot weather. and though the men ought to enjoy the cool and the comfort they miss the society of the barrack down below and do their best to come back or to avoid go. i felt that this move would bring matter to a head so i leave terrence hopefully though he call after me he win t take the dog sorr. you can lay your month s pay on that. ye know his fit. 
i never pretend to understand private ortheris. and so i do the next best thing i leave him alone. 
that summer the invalid of the regiment to which my friend belong be order off to the hill early because the doctor think march in the cool of the day would do them good. their route lay south to a place call umballa a hundred and twenty mile or more. then they would turn east and march up into the hill to kasauli or dugshai or subathoo. i din with the officer the night before they leave they be march at five in the morning. it be midnight when i drive into my garden and surprise a white figure fly over the wall. 
that man say my butler ha be here since nine make talk to that dog. he be quite mad. 
i do not tell him to go away because he ha be here many time before and because the dog boy tell me that if i tell him to go away that great dog would immediately slay me. he do not wish to speak to the protector of the poor and he do not ask for anything to eat or drink. 
kadir buksh say i that be well do for the dog would surely have kill thee. but i do not think the white soldier will come any more. 
garm sleep ill that night and whimper in his dream. once he spring up with a clear ring bark and i hear him wag his tail till it wake him and the bark die out in a howl. he have dream he be with his master again and i nearly cry. it be all stanley s silly fault. 
the first halt which the detachment of invalid make be some mile from their barrack on the amritsar road and ten mile distant from my house. by a mere chance one of the officer drive back for another good dinner at the club. cook on the line of march be always bad. and there i meet him. he be a particular friend of mine and i know that he know how to love a dog properly. his pet be a big fat retriever who be go up to the hill for his health and though it be still april the round brown brute puff and pant in the club verandah a though he would burst. 
it s amaze say the officer what excuse these invalid of mine make to get back to barrack. there s a man in my company now ask me for leave to go back to cantonment to pay a debt he d forget. i be so take by the idea i let him go and he jingle off in an ekka a please a punch. ten mile to pay a debt. wonder what it be really. 
if you ll drive me home i think i can show you i say. 
so he go over to my house in his dog cart with the retriever. and on the way i tell him the story of garm. 
i be wonder where that brute have go to. he s the best dog in the regiment say my friend. i offer the little fellow twenty rupee for him a month ago. but he s a hostage you say for stanley s good conduct. stanley s one of the best men i have when he choose. 
that s the reason why i say. a second rate man wouldn t have take thing to heart a he ha do. 
we drive in quietly at the far end of the garden and creep round the house. there be a place close to the wall all grow about with tamarisk tree where i know garm keep his bone. even vixen be not allow to sit near it. in the full indian moonlight i could see a white uniform bend over the dog. 
good bye old man we could not help hear stanley s voice. for eving s sake don t get bite and go mad by any measly pi dog. but you can look after yourself old man. you don t get drink an run about ittin your friend. you take your bone an you eat your biscuit an you kill your enemy like a gentleman. i m goin away don t owl i m goin off to kasauli where i win t see you no more. 
i could hear him hold garm s nose a the dog throw it up to the star. 
you ll stay here an be ave an an i ll go away an try to be ave an i don t know ow to leave you. i don t know. 
i think this be damn silly say the officer pat his foolish fubsy old retriever. he call to the private who leap to his foot march forward and salute. 
you here. say the officer turn away his head. 
yes sir but i m just goin back. 
i shall be leave here at eleven in my cart. you come with me. i can t have sick men run about fall over the place. report yourself at eleven here. 
we do not say much when we go indoors but the officer mutter and pull his retriever s ear. 
he be a disgraceful overfed doormat of a dog. and when he waddle off to my cookhouse to be feed i have a brilliant idea. 
at eleven o clock that officer s dog be nowhere to be find and you never hear such a fuss a his owner make. he call and shout and grow angry and hunt through my garden for half an hour. 
then i say. 
he s sure to turn up in the morning. send a man in by rail and i ll find the beast and return him. 
beast. say the officer. i value that dog considerably more than i value any man i know. it s all very fine for you to talk your dog s here. 
so she be under my foot and have she be miss food and wage would have stop in my house till her return. but some people grow fond of dog not worth a cut of the whip. my friend have to drive away at last with stanley in the back seat. and then the dog boy say to me. 
what kind of animal be bullen sahib s dog. look at him. 
i go to the boy s hut and the fat old reprobate be lie on a mat carefully chain up. he must have hear his master call for twenty minute but have not even attempt to join him. 
he ha no face say the dog boy scornfully. he be a punniar kooter. a spaniel. he never try to get that cloth off his jaw when his master call. now vixen baba would have jump through the window and that great dog would have slay me with his muzzle mouth. it be true that there be many kind of dog. 
next even who should turn up but stanley. the officer have send him back fourteen mile by rail with a note beg me to return the retriever if i have find him and if i have not to offer huge reward. the last train to camp leave at half past ten and stanley stay till ten talk to garm. i argue and entreat and even threaten to shoot the bull terrier but the little man be a firm a a rock though i give him a good dinner and talk to him most severely. garm know a well a i that this be the last time he could hope to see his man and follow stanley like a shadow. the retriever say nothing but lick his lip after his meal and waddle off without so much a say thank you to the disgust dog boy. 
so that last meet be over and i felt a wretched a garm who moan in his sleep all night. when we go to the office he find a place under the table close to vixen and drop flat till it be time to go home. there be no more run out into the verandah no slink away for steal talk with stanley. a the weather grow warm the dog be forbid to run beside the cart but sit at my side on the seat vixen with her head under the crook of my leave elbow and garm hug the leave handrail. 
here vixen be ever in great form. she have to attend to all the move traffic such a bullock cart that block the way and camel and lead pony. a well a to keep up her dignity when she pass low friend run in the dust. she never yap for yap s sake but her shrill high bark be know all along the mall and other men s terrier ki yied in reply and bullock driver look over their shoulder and give u the road with a grin. 
but garm care for none of these thing. his big eye be on the horizon and his terrible mouth be shut. there be another dog in the office who belong to my chief. we call him bob the librarian because he always imagine vain rat behind the bookshelf and in hunt for them would drag out half the old newspaper file. bob be a well mean idiot but garm do not encourage him. he would slide his head round the door pant rat. come along garm. and garm would shift one forepaw over the other and curl himself round leave bob to whine at a most uninterested back. the office be nearly a cheerful a a tomb in those day. 
once and only once do i see garm at all content with his surround. he have go for an unauthorised walk with vixen early one sunday morning and a very young and foolish artilleryman. his battery have just move to that part of the world. try to steal them both. vixen of course know good than to take food from soldier and besides she have just finish her breakfast. so she trot back with a large piece of the mutton that they issue to our troop lay it down on my verandah and look up to see what i think. i ask her where garin be and she run in front of the horse to show me the way. 
about a mile up the road we come across our artilleryman sit very stiffly on the edge of a culvert with a greasy handkerchief on his knee. garin be in front of him look rather please. when the man move leg or hand garin bar his teeth in silence. a break string hang from his collar and the other half of it lay all warm in the artilleryman s still hand. he explain to me keep his eye straight in front of him that he have meet this dog. he call him awful name. walk alone and be go to take him to the fort to be kill for a masterless pariah. 
i say that garin do not seem to me much of a pariah but that he have good take him to the fort if he think best. he say he do not care to do so. i tell him to go to the fort alone. he say he do not want to go at that hour but would follow my advice a soon a i have call off the dog. i instruct garin to take him to the fort and garm march him solemnly up to the gate one mile and a half under a hot sun and i tell the quarter guard what have happen. but the young artilleryman be more angry than be at all necessary when they begin to laugh. several regiment he be tell have try to steal garm in their time. 
that month the hot weather shut down in earnest and the dog sleep in the bathroom on the cool wet brick where the bath be place. every morning a soon a the man fill my bath the two jump in and every morning the man fill the bath a second time. i say to him that he might a well fill a small tub specially for the dog. nay say he smile it be not their custom. they would not understand. besides the big bath give them more space. 
the punkah cooly who pull the punkah day and night come to know garin intimately. he notice that when the sway fan stop i would call out to the coolie and bid him pull with a long stroke. if the man still sleep i would wake him up. he discover too that it be a good thing to lie in the wave of air under the punkah. maybe stanley have teach him all about this in barrack. at any rate when the punkah stop garin would first growl and cock his eye at the rope and if that do not wake the man it nearly always do he would tiptoe forth and talk in the sleeper s ear. vixen be a clever little dog but she could never connect the punkah and the coolie. so garin give me grateful hour of cool sleep. but he be utterly wretched a miserable a a human be. and in his misery he cling so closely to me that other men notice it and be envious. if i move from one room to another garin follow. if my pen stop scratch garm s head be thrust into my hand. if i turn half awake on the pillow garm be up and at my side for he know that i be his only link with his master and day and night and night and day his eye ask one question when be this go to end. 
live with the dog a i do i never notice that he be more than ordinarily upset by the hot weather till one day at the club a man say. that dog of yours will die in a week or two. he s a shadow. then i dose garin with iron and quinine which he hat. and i felt very anxious. he lose his appetite and vixen be allow to eat his dinner under his eye. even that do not make him swallow and we hold a consultation on him of the best man doctor in the place. a lady doctor who cure the sick wife of king. and the deputy inspector general of the veterinary service of all india. they pronounce upon his symptom and i tell them his story and garm lay on a sofa lick my hand. 
he s die of a break heart say the lady doctor suddenly. 
pon my word say the deputy inspector general i believe mr. macrae be perfectly right a usual. 
the best man doctor in the place write a prescription and the veterinary deputy inspector general go over it afterwards to be sure that the drug be in the proper dog proportion. and that be the first time in his life that our doctor ever allow his prescription to be edit. it be a strong tonic and it put the dear boy on his foot for a week or two. then he lose flesh again. i ask a man i know to take him up to the hill with him when he go and the man come to the door with his kit pack on the top of the carriage. garin take in the situation at one red glance. the hair rise along his back. he sit down in front of me and deliver the most awful growl i have ever hear in the jaw of a dog. i shout to my friend to get away at once and a soon a the carriage be out of the garden garin lay his head on my knee and whine. so i know his answer and devote myself to get stanley s address in the hill. 
my turn to go to the cool come late in august. we be allow thirty day holiday in a year if no one fell sick and we take it a we could be spar. my chief and bob the librarian have their holiday first and when they be go i make a calendar a i always do and hang it up at the head of my cot tear off one day at a time till they return. vixen have go up to the hill with me five time before. and she appreciate the cold and the damp and the beautiful wood fire there a much a i do. 
garm i say we be go back to stanley at kasauli. kasauli stanley. stanley kasauli. and i repeat it twenty time. it be not kasauli really but another place. still i remember what stanley have say in my garden on the last night and i dare not change the name. then garm begin to tremble. then he bark. and then he leap up at me frisk and wag his tail. 
not now i say hold up my hand. when i say go we ll go garm. i pull out the little blanket coat and spike collar that vixen always wear up in the hill to protect her against sudden chill and thieve leopard and i let the two smell them and talk it over. what they say of course i do not know. but it make a new dog of garm. his eye be bright. and he bark joyfully when i speak to him. he eat his food and he kill his rat for the next three week and when he begin to whine i have only to say stanley kasauli. kasauli stanley to wake him up. i wish i have think of it before. 
my chief come back all brown with live in the open air and very angry at find it so hot in the plain. that same afternoon we three and kadir buksh begin to pack for our month s holiday vixen roll in and out of the bullock trunk twenty time a minute and garm grin all over and thump on the floor with his tail. vixen know the routine of travel a well a she know my office work. she go to the station sing song on the front seat of the carriage while garin sit with me. she hurry into the railway carriage saw kadir buksh make up my bed for the night get her drink of water and curl up with her black patch eye on the tumult of the platform. garin follow her. the crowd give him a lane all to himself. and sit down on the pillow with his eye blaze and his tail a haze behind him. 
we come to umballa in the hot misty dawn four or five men who have be work hard fox eleven month shout for our dale the two horse travel carriage that be to take u up to kalka at the foot of the hill. it be all new to garm. he do not understand carriage where you lay at full length on your bed but vixen know and hop into her place at once. garin follow. the kalka road before the railway be build be about forty seven mile long and the horse be change every eight mile. most of them jib and kick and plunge but they have to go and they go rather good than usual for garm s deep bay in their rear. 
there be a river to be ford and four bullock pull the carriage and vixen stick her head out of the slide door and nearly fell into the water while she give direction. garin be silent and curious and rather need reassure about stanley and kasauli. so we roll bark and yelp into kalka for lunch and garm eat enough for two. 
after kalka the road wind among the hill and we take a curricle with half break pony which be change every six mile. no one dream of a railroad to simla in those day for it be seven thousand foot up in the air. the road be more than fifty mile long and the regulation pace be just a fast a the pony could go. here again vixen lead garm from one carriage to the other. jump into the back seat and shout. a cool breath from the snow meet u about five mile out of kalka and she whine for her coat wisely fear a chill on the liver. i have have one make for garm too and a we climb to the fresh breeze i put it on and arm chew it uncomprehendingly but i think he be grateful. 
hi yi yi yi. sing vixen a we shoot round the curve. toot toot toot. go the driver s bugle at the dangerous place and yow. yow. bay garm. kadir buksh sit on the front seat and smile. even he be glad to get away from the heat of the plain that stew in the haze behind u. now and then we would meet a man we know go down to his work again and he would say. what s it like below. and i would shout. hot than cinder. what s it like up above. and he would shout back. just perfect. and away we would go. 
suddenly kadir buksh say over his shoulder. here be solon. and garm snore where he lay with his head on my knee. solon be an unpleasant little cantonment but it ha the advantage of be cool and healthy. it be all bare and windy and one generally stop at a rest house nearby for something to eat. i get out and take both dog with me while kadir buksh make tea. a soldier tell u we should find stanley out there nod his head towards a bare bleak hill. 
when we climb to the top we spy that very stanley who have give me all this trouble sit on a rock with his face in his hand and his overcoat hang loose about him. i never saw anything so lonely and deject in my life a this one little man crumple up and think on the great gray hillside. 
here garm leave me. 
he depart without a word and so far a i could see without move his leg. he fly through the air bodily and i hear the whack of him a he fling himself at stanley knock the little man clean over. they roll on the grind together shout and yelp and hug. i could not see which be dog and which be man till stanley get up and whimper. 
he tell me that he have be suffer from fever at interval and be very weak. he look all he say but even while i watch both man and dog plump out to their natural size precisely a dry apple swell in water. garin be on his shoulder and his breast and foot all at the same time so that stanley speak all through a cloud of garin gulp sob slaver garm. he do not say anything that i could understand except that he have fancy he be go to die but that now he be quite well and that he be not go to give up garin any more to anybody under the rank of beelzebub. 
then he say he felt hungry and thirsty and happy. 
we go down to tea at the rest house where stanley stuff himself with sardine and raspberry jam and beer and cold mutton and pickle when garm wasn t climb over him. and then vixen and i go on. 
garm saw how it be at once. he say good bye to me three time give me both paw one after another and leap on to my shoulder. he further escort u sing hosanna at the top of his voice a mile down the road. then he race back to his own master. 
vixen never open her mouth but when the cold twilight come and we could see the light of simla across the hill she snuffle with her nose at the breast of my ulster. i unbutton it and tuck her inside. then she give a content little sniff and fell fast asleep her head on my breast till we bundle out at simla two of the four happy people in all the world that night. 
the power of the dog. 
there be sorrow enough in the natural way from men and woman to fill our day. but when we be certain of sorrow in store why do we always arrange for more. brother and sister i bid you beware of give your heart to a dog to tear. 
buy a pup and your money will buy love unflinching that cannot lie perfect passion and worship feed by a kick in the rib or a pat on the head. nevertheless it be hardly fair to risk your heart for a dog to tear. 
when the fourteen year which nature permit be close in asthma or tumour or fit and the vet s unspoken prescription run to lethal chamber or load gun then you will find it s your own affair but. you ve give your heart to a dog to tear. 
when the body that live at your single will when the whimper of welcome be still. how still. when the spirit that answer your every mood be go wherever it go for good you will discover how much you care and will give your heart to a dog to tear. 
we ve sorrow enough in the natural way when it come to bury christian clay. our love be not give but only lend at compound interest of cent per cent. though it be not always the case i believe that the long we ve keep em the more do we grieve. for when debt be payable right or wrong a short time loan be a bad a a long so why in heaven. before we be there. should we give our heart to a dog to tear. 
the mother hive. 
if the stock have not be old and overcrowd the wax moth would never have enter. but where bee be too thick on the comb there must be sickness or parasite. the heat of the hive have rise with the june honey flow and though the farmer work until their wing ache to keep people cool everybody suffer. 
a young bee crawl up the greasy trample alight board. excuse me she begin but it s my first honey flight. could you kindly tell me if this be my. 
own hive. the guard snap. yes. buzz in and be foul brood to you. next. 
shame. cry half a dozen old worker with wear wing and nerve and there be a scuffle and a hum. 
the little grey wax moth press close in a crack in the alight board have wait this chance all day. she scuttle in like a ghost and know the senior bee would turn her out at once dodge into a brood frame where youngster who have not yet see the wind blow or the flower nod discuss life. here she be safe for young bee will tolerate any sort of strange. behind her come the bee who have be slang by the guard. 
what be the world like melissa. say a companion. cruel. i bring in a full load of first class stuff and the guard tell me to go and be foul brood. she sit down in the cool draught across the comb. 
if you d only hear say the wax moth silkily the insolence of the guard s tone when she curse our sister. it arouse the entire community. she lay an egg. she have steal in for that purpose. 
there be a bite of a fuss on the gate melissa chuckle. you be there miss. she do not know how to address the slim strange. 
don t call me miss. i m a sister to all in affliction just a work sister. my heart bleed for you beneath your burden. the wax moth caress melissa with her soft feeler and lay another egg. 
you mustn t lay here cry melissa. you aren t a queen. 
my dear child i give you my most solemn word of honour those aren t egg. those be my principle and i be ready to die for them. she raise her voice a little above the rustle and tramp round her. if you d like to kill me pray do. 
don t be unkind melissa say a young bee impress by the chaste fold of the wax moth s wing which hide her ceaseless egg drop. 
i haven t do anything melissa answer. she s do it all. 
ah don t let your conscience reproach you late but when you ve kill me write me at least a one that love her fellow worker. 
lay at every sob the wax moth back into a crowd of young bee and leave melissa bewilder and annoy. so she lift up her little voice in the darkness and cry store. till a gang of cell filler hail her and she leave her load with them. 
i m afraid i foul brood you just now say a voice over her shoulder. i d be on the gate for three hour and one would foul brood the queen herself after that. no offence mean. 
none take melissa answer cheerily. i shall be on guard myself some day. what s next to do. 
there s a rumour of death s head moth about. send a gang of youngster to the gate and tell them to narrow it in with a couple of stout scrap wax pillar. it ll make the hive hot but we can t have death s header in the middle of our honey flow. 
my only wing. i should think not. melissa have all a sound bee s hereditary hatred against the big squeak feathery thief of the hive. tumble out. she call across the youngster quarter. all you who aren t feed baby show a leg. scrap wax pillar for the ga eat. she chant the order at length. 
that s nonsense a downy day old bee answer. in the first place i never hear of a death s header come into a hive. people don t do such thing. in the second build pillar to keep em out be purely a cypriote trick unworthy of british bee. in the third if you trust a death s head he will trust you. pillar build show lack of confidence. our dear sister in grey say so. 
yes. pillar be un english and provocative and a waste of wax that be need for high and more practical end say the wax moth from an empty store cell. 
the safety of the hive be the high thing i ve ever hear of. you mustn t teach u to refuse work melissa begin. 
you misunderstand me a usual love. work s the essence of life. but to expend precious unreturning vitality and real labour against imaginary danger that be heartbreakingly absurd. if i can only teach a a little toleration a little ordinary kindness here toward that absurd old bogey you call the death s header i shan t have live in vain. 
she hasn t live in vain the darling. cry twenty bee together. you should see her saintly life melissa. she just devote herself to spread her principle and and she look lovely. 
an old baldish bee come up the comb. 
pillar worker for the gate. get out and chew scrap. buzz off. she say. the wax moth slip aside. 
the young bee troop down the frame whisper. what s the matter with em. say the oldster. why do they call each other ducky and darling. must be the weather. she sniff suspiciously. horrid stuffy smell here. like stale quilt. not wax moth i hope melissa. 
not to my knowledge say melissa who of course only know the wax moth a a lady with principle and have never think to report her presence. she have always imagine wax moth to be like blood red dragon fly. 
you have good fan out this corner for a little say the old bee and pass on. melissa drop her head at once take firm hold with her fore foot and fan obediently at the regulation stroke three hundred beat to the second. fan try a bee s temper because she must always keep in the same place where she never seem to be do any good and all the while she be wear out her only wing. when a bee cannot fly a bee must not live. and a bee know it. the wax moth creep forth and caress melissa again. 
i see she murmur that at heart you be one of u. 
i work with the hive melissa answer briefly. 
it s the same thing. we and the hive be one. 
then why be your feeler different from ours. don t cuddle so. 
don t be provincial carissima. you can t have all the world alike yet. 
but why do you lay egg. melissa insist. you lay em like a queen only you drop them in patch all over the place. i ve watch you. 
ah brighteyes so you ve pierce my little subterfuge. yes they be egg. by and by they ll spread our principle. aren t you glad. 
you give me your most solemn word of honour that they be not egg. 
that be my little subterfuge dear for the sake of the cause. now i must reach the young. the wax moth trip towards the fourth brood frame where the young bee be busy feed the baby. 
it take some time for a sound bee to realize a malignant and continuous lie. she s very sweet and feathery be all that melissa think but her talk sound like ivy honey taste. i d good get to my field work again. 
she find the gate in a sulky uproar. the youngster tell off to the pillar have refuse to chew scrap wax because it make their jaw ache and be clamour for virgin stuff. 
anything to finish the job. say the badger guard. hang up some of you and make wax for these slack jaw sister. 
before a bee can make wax she must fill herself with honey. then she climb to safe foothold and hang while other gorge bee hang on to her in a cluster. there they wait in silence till the wax come. the scale be either take out of the maker s pocket by the worker or tinkle down on the worker while they wait. the worker chew them. they be useless unchewed. into the all support all embrace wax of the hive. 
but now no sooner be the wax cluster in position than the worker below break out again. 
come down. they cry. come down and work. come on you levantine parasite. don t think to enjoy yourselves up there while we re sweat down here. 
the cluster shiver a from hook fore foot to hook hind foot it telegraph uneasiness. at last a worker spring up grab the low waxmaker and swing kick above her companion. 
i can make wax too. she bawl. give me a full gorge and i ll make ton of it. 
make it then say the bee she have grapple. the speak word snap the current through the cluster. it shake and glisten like a cat s fur in the dark. unhook. it murmur. no wax for any one to day. 
you lazy thief. hang up at once and produce our wax say the bee below. 
impossible. the sweat s go. to make your wax we must have stillness warmth and food. unhook. unhook. 
they break up a they murmur and disappear among the other bee from whom of course they be undistinguishable. 
seem a if we d have to chew scrap wax for these pillar after all say a worker. 
not by a whole comb cry the young bee who have break the cluster. listen here. i ve study the question more than twenty minute. it s a simple a fall off a daisy. you ve hear of cheshire root and langstroth. 
they have not but they shout good old langstroth. just the same. 
those three know all that there be to be know about make hive. one or t other of em must have make ours and if they ve make it they re bind to look after it. ours be a guarantee patent hive. you can see it on the label behind. 
good old guarantee. hurrah for the label behind. roar the bee. 
well such be the case i say that when we find they ve betray u we can exact from them a terrible vengeance. 
good old vengeance. good old root. nuff say. chuck it. the crowd cheer and break away a melissa dive through. 
d you know where langstroth root and cheshire live if you happen to want em. she ask of the proud pant orator. 
gum me if i know they ever live at all. but aren t they beautiful name to buzz about. do you see how it work up the sisterhood. 
yes. but it didn t defend the gate she reply. 
ah perhaps that s true but think how delicate my position be sister. i ve a magnificent appetite and i don t like work. it s bad for the mind. my instinct tell me that i can act a a restrain influence on others. they would have be bad but for me. 
but melissa have already rise clear and be head for a breadth of virgin white clover which to an overtire bee be a soothe a plain knit to a woman. 
i think i ll take this load to the nursery she say when she have finish. it be always quiet there in my day and she top off with two little pat of pollen for the baby. 
she be meet on the fourth brood comb by a rush of excite sister all buzz together. 
one at a time. let me put down my load. now what be it sacharissa. she say. 
grey sister that fluffy one i mean she come and say we ought to be out in the sunshine gather honey because life be short. she say any old bee could attend to our baby and some day old bee would. that isn t true melissa be it. no old bee can take u away from our baby can they. 
of course not. you fee the baby while your head be soft. when your head harden you go on to field work. any one know that. 
we tell her so. we tell her so. but she only wave her feeler and say we could all lay egg like queen if we choose. and i m afraid lot of the weak sister believe her and be try to do it. so unsettle. 
sacharissa speed to a seal worker cell whose lid pulsate a the bee within begin to cut it way out. 
come along precious. she murmur and thin the frail top from the other side. a pale damp crease thing hoist itself feebly on to the comb. sacharissa s note change at once. no time to waste. go up the frame and preen yourself. she say. report for nurse duty in my ward to morrow even at six. stop a minute. what s the matter with your third right leg. 
the young bee hold it out in silence unmistakably a drone leg incapable of pack pollen. 
thank you. you needn t report till the day after to morrow. sacharissa turn to her companion. that s the fifth oddity hatch in my ward since noon. i don t like it. 
there s always a certain number of em say melissa. you can t stop a few work sister from lay now and then when they overfeed themselves. they only raise dwarf drone. 
but we re hatch out drone with worker stomach. worker with drone stomach. and albinoes and mix leggers who can t pack pollen like that poor little beast yonder. i don t mind dwarf drone any more than you do. they all die in july. but this steady hatch of oddity frighten me melissa. 
how narrow of you. they be all so delightfully clever and unusual and interest pip the wax moth from a crack above them. come here you dear downy duck and tell u all about your feeling. 
i wish she d go. sacharissa lower her voice. she meet these er oddity a they dry out and cuddle em in corner. 
i suppose the truth be that we re over stock and too well feed to swarm say melissa. 
that be the truth say the queen s voice behind them. they have not hear the heavy royal footfall which set empty cell vibrate. sacharissa offer her food at once. she eat and drag her weary body forward. can you suggest a remedy. she say. 
new principle. cry the wax moth from her crevice. we ll apply them quietly late. 
suppose we send out a swarm. melissa suggest. it s a little late but it might ease u off. 
it would save u but i know the hive. you shall see for yourself. the old queen cry the swarm cry which to a bee of good blood should be what the trumpet be to job s war horse. in spite of her immense age. three year. it ring between the canon like frame a a pibroch ring in a mountain pas. the fanners change their note and repeat it up in every gallery. and the broad wing drone burly and eager end it on one nerve thrill outbreak of bugle. la reine le veult. swarm. swar rm. swar r rm. 
but the roar which should follow the call be want. they hear a break grumble like the murmur of a fall tide. 
swarm. what for. catch me leave a good bar frame hive with fix foundation for a rotten old oak out in the open where it may rain any minute. we re all right. it s a patent guarantee hive. why do they want to turn u out. swarm be gum. swarm be invent to cheat a worker out of her proper comfort. come on off to bed. 
the noise die out a the bee settle in empty cell for the night. 
you hear. say the queen. i know the hive. 
quite between ourselves i teach them that cry the wax moth. wait till my principle develop and you ll see the light from a new quarter. 
you speak truth for once the queen say suddenly for she recognize the wax moth. that light will break into the top of the hive. a hot smoke will follow it and your child will not be able to hide in any crevice. 
be it possible. melissa whisper. i we have sometimes hear a legend like it. 
it be no legend the old queen answer. i have it from my mother and she have it from hers. after the wax moth ha grow strong a shadow will fall across the gate. a voice will speak from behind a veil. there will be light and hot smoke and earthquake and those who live will see everything that they have do all together in one place burn up in one great fire. the old queen be try to tell what she have be tell of the bee master s dealing with an infect hive in the apiary two or three season ago. and of course from her point of view the affair be a important a the day of judgment. 
and then. ask horrify sacharissa. 
then i have hear that a little light will burn in a great darkness and perhaps the world will begin again. myself i think not. 
tut. tut. the wax moth cry. you good fat people always prophesy ruin if thing don t go exactly your way. but i grant you there will be change. 
there be. when her egg hatch the wax be riddle with little tunnel coat with the dirty clothe of the caterpillar. flannelly line run through the honey store the pollen larder the foundation and bad of all through the baby in their cradle till the sweeper guard spend half their time toss out useless little corps. the line end in a maze of sticky web on the face of the comb. the caterpillar could not stop spin a they walk and a they walk everywhere they smarmed and garmed everything. even where it do not hamper the bee foot the stale sour smell of the stuff put them off their work. though some of the bee who have take to egg lay say it encourage them to be mother and maintain a vital interest in life. 
when the caterpillar become moth they make friend with the ever increase oddity albinoes mix leggers single eye composite faceless drone halfqueens and lay sister. and the ever dwindle band of the old stock work themselves bald and fray wing to fee their queer charge. most of the oddity would not and many on account of their malformation could not go through a day s field work. but the wax moth who be always busy on the brood comb find pleasant home occupation for them. one albino for instance divide the number of pound of honey in stock by the number of bee in the hive and prove that if every bee only gather honey for seven and three quarter minute a day she would have the rest of the time to herself and could accompany the drone on their mat flight. the drone be not at all please. 
another an eyeless drone with no feeler say that all brood cell should be perfect circle so a not to interfere with the grub or the worker. he prove that the old six side cell be solely due to the worker build against each other on opposite side of the wall and that if there be no interference there would be no angle. some bee try the new plan for a while and find it cost eight time more wax than the old six side specification. and a they never allow a cluster to hang up and make wax in peace real wax be scarce. however they eked out their task with varnish steal from new coffin at funeral and it make them rather sick. then they take to cadge round sugar factory and brewery because it be easy to get their material from those place and the mixture of glucose and beer naturally ferment in store and blow the store cell out of shape besides smell abominably. some of the sound bee warn them that ill get gain never prosper but the oddity at once surround them and ball them to death. that be a punishment they be almost a fond of a they be of eat and they expect the sound bee to fee them. curiously enough the age old instinct of loyalty and devotion towards the hive make the sound bee do this though their reason tell them they ought to slip away and unite with some other healthy stock in the apiary. 
what about seven and three quarter minute work now. say melissa one day a she come in. i ve be at it for five hour and i ve only half a load. 
oh the hive subsist on the hival honey which the hive produce say a blind oddity squat in a store cell. 
but honey be gather from flower outside two mile away sometimes cry melissa. 
pardon me say the blind thing suck hard. but this be the hive be it not. 
it be. bad luck it be. 
and the hival honey be here be it not. it open a fresh store cell to prove it. 
ye e but it win t be long at this rate say melissa. 
the rate have nothing to do with it. this hive produce the hival honey. you people never seem to grasp the economic simplicity that underlie all life. 
oh me. say poor melissa haven t you ever be beyond the gate. 
certainly not. a fool s eye be in the end of the earth. mine be in my head. it gorge till it bloat. 
melissa take refuge in her poorly pay field work and tell sacharissa the story. 
hut. say that wise bee fret with an old maid of a thistle. tell u something new. the hive s full of such a him it i mean. 
what s the end to be. all the honey go out and none come in. thing can t last this way. say melissa. 
who care. say sacharissa. i know now how drone feel the day before they re kill. a short life and a merry one for me. 
if it only be merry. but think of those awful solemn lop side oddity wait for u at home crawl and clamber and preach and dirty thing in the dark. 
i don t mind that so much a their silly song after we ve feed em all about work among the merry merry blossom say sacharissa from the deep of a stale canterbury bell. 
i do. how s our queen. say melissa. 
cheerfully hopeless a usual. but she lay an egg now and then. 
doe she so. melissa back out of the next bell with a jerk. suppose now we sound worker try to raise a princess in some clean corner. 
you d be put to it to find one. the hive s all wax moth and muck. but well. 
a princess might help u in the time of the voice behind the veil that the queen talk of. and anything be good than work for oddity that chirrup about work that they can t do and waste what we bring home. 
who care. say sacharissa. i m with you for the fun of it. the oddity would ball u to death if they know. come home and we ll begin. 
there be no room to tell how the experience melissa find a far off frame so mess and mishandle by abandon cell build experiment that for very shame the bee never go there. how in that ruin she block out a royal cell of sound wax but disguise by rubbish till it look like a kopje among desert kopje. how she prevail upon the hopeless queen to make one last effort and lay a worthy egg. how the queen obey and die. how her spend carcass be fling out on the rubbish heap and how a multitude of lay sister go about drop drone egg where they list and say there be no more need of queen. how cover by this confusion sacharissa educate certain young bee to educate certain new bear bee in the almost lose art of make royal jelly. how the nectar for it be win out of hour in the teeth of chill wind. how the hide egg hatch true no drone but blood royal. how it be cap and how desperately they work to fee and double fee the now swarm oddity l any break in the food supply should set them to institute inquiry which with song about work be their favourite amusement. how in an auspicious hour on a moonless night the princess come forth a princess indeed and how melissa smuggle her into a dark empty honey magazine to bide her time. and how the drone know she be there go about sing the deep disreputable love song of the old day to the scandal of the lay sister who do not think well of drone. these thing be write in the book of queen which be lay up in the hollow of the great ash ygdrasil. 
after a few day the weather change again and become glorious. even the oddity would now join the crowd that hang out on the alight board and would sing of work among the merry merry blossom till an untrained ear might have receive it for the hum of a work hive. yet in truth their store honey have be eat long ago. they live from day to day on the effort of the few sound bee while the wax moth fret and consume again their already ruin wax. but the sound bee never mention these matter. they know if they do the oddity would hold a meet and ball them to death. 
now you see what we have do say the wax moth. we have create new material a new convention a new type a we say we would. 
and new possibility for u say the lay sister gratefully. you have give u a new life s work vital and paramount. 
more than that chant the oddity in the sunshine. you have create a new heaven and a new earth. heaven cloudless and accessible. it be a perfect august even. and earth teem with the merry merry blossom wait only our honest toil to turn them all to good. the er aster and the crocus and the er lady smock in her season the chrysanthemum after her kind and the guelder rise bring forth abundantly withal. 
oh holy hymettus. say melissa awestruck. i know they didn t know how honey be make but they ve forget the order of the flower. what will become of them. 
a shadow fell across the alight board a the bee master and his son come by. the oddity crawl in and a voice behind a veil say. i ve neglect the old hive too long. give me the smoker. 
melissa hear and dart through the gate. come oh come. she cry. it be the destruction the old queen foretell. princess come. 
really you be too archaic for word say an oddity in an alley way. a cloud i admit may have cross the sun. but why hysteric. above all why princess so late in the day. be you aware it s the hival tea time. let s sing grace. 
melissa claw past him with all six leg. sacharissa have run to what be leave of the fertile brood comb. down and out. she call across the brown breadth of it. nurse guard fanners sweeper out. 
never mind the baby. they re good dead. out before the light and the hot smoke. 
the princess s first clear fearless call. melissa have find her. rise and drum through all the frame. la reine le veult. swarm. swar rm. swar r rm. 
the hive shake beneath the shatter thunder of a stick down quilt be tear back. 
don t be alarm dear say the wax moth. that s our work. look up and you ll see the dawn of the new day. 
light break in the top of the hive a the queen have prophesy naked light on the boil bewilder bee. 
sacharissa round up her rearguard which drop headlong off the frame and join the princess s detachment thrust toward the gate. now panic be in full blast and each sound bee find herself embrace by at least three oddity. the first instinct of a frighten bee be to break into the store and gorge herself with honey. but there be no store leave so the oddity fight the sound bee. 
you must fee u or we shall die. they cry hold and clutch and slip while the silent scar earwig and little spider twist between their leg. think of the hive traitor. the holy hive. 
you should have think before. cry the sound bee. stay and see the dawn of your new day. 
they reach the gate at last over the soft body of many to whom they have minister. 
on. out. up. roar melissa in the princess s ear. for the hive s sake. to the old oak. 
the princess leave the alight board circle once fling herself at the low branch of the old oak and her little loyal swarm you could have cover it with a pint mug follow hook and hang. 
hold close. melissa gasp. the old legend have come true. look. 
the hive be half hide by smoke and figure move through the smoke. they hear a frame crack stickily saw it heave high and twirl round between enormous hand a blotch bulge and perish horror of grey wax corrupt brood and small drone cell all cover with crawl oddity strange to the sun. 
why this isn t a hive. this be a museum of curiosity say the voice behind the veil. it be only the bee master talk to his son. 
can you blame em father. say a second voice. it s rotten with wax moth. see here. 
another frame come up. a finger poke through it and it break away in rustle flake of ashy rottenness. 
number four frame. that be your mother s pet comb once whisper melissa to the princess. many s the good egg i ve watch her lay there. 
aren t you confuse pod hoc with propter hoc. say the bee master. wax moth only succeed when weak bee let them in. a third frame crackle and rise into the light. all this be full of lay worker brood. that never happen till the stock s weaken. phew. 
he beat it on his knee like a tambourine and it also crumble to piece. 
the little swarm shiver a they watch the dwarf drone grub squirm feebly on the grass. many sound bee have nurse on that frame well know their work be useless. but the actual sight of even useless work destroy dishearten a good worker. 
no they have some recuperative power leave say the second voice. here s a queen cell. 
but it s tuck away among what on earth ha come to the little wretch. they seem to have lose the instinct of cell build. the father hold up the frame where the bee have experiment in circular cell work. it look like the pit head of a decay toadstool. 
not altogether the son correct. there s one line at least of perfectly good cell. 
my work say sacharissa to herself. i m glad man doe me justice before. 
that frame too be smash out and throw atop of the others and the foul earwiggy quilt. 
a frame after frame follow it the swarm behold the upheaval exposure and destruction of all that have be well or ill do in every cranny of their hive for generation past. there be black comb so old that they have forget where it hang. orange buff and ochre varnish store comb build a bee be use to build before the day of artificial foundation. and there be a little white frail new work. there be sheet on sheet of level even brood comb that have hold in it time unnumbered thousand of unnamed worker. patch of obsolete drone comb broad and high shoulder show to what mark the male grub be expect to grow. and two inch deep honey magazine empty but still magnificent the whole gum and glue into twist scrap work awry on the wire. half cell beginning abandon or grandiose weak wall composite cell piece out with rubbish and cap with dirt. 
good or bad every inch of it be so riddle by the tunnel of the wax moth that it break in cloud of dust a it be fling on the heap. 
oh see. cry sacharissa. the great burn that our queen foretell. who can bear to look. 
a flame crawl up the pile of rubbish and they smelt singe wax. 
the figure stoop lift the hive and shake it upside down over the pyre. a cascade of oddity chip of break comb scale fluff and grub slide out crackle sizzle pop a little and then the flame roar up and consume all that fuel. 
we must disinfect say a voice. get me a sulphur candle please. 
the shell of the hive be return to it place a light be set in it sticky emptiness tier by tier the figure build it up close the entrance and go away. the swarm watch the light leak through the crack all the long night. at dawn one wax moth come by flutter impudently. 
there ha be a miscalculation about the new day my dear she begin. one can t expect people to be perfect all at once. that be our mistake. 
no the mistake be entirely ours say the princess. 
pardon me say the wax moth. when you think of the enormous upheaval call it good or bad which our influence bring about you will admit that we and we alone. 
you. say the princess. our stock be not strong. so you come a any other disease might have come. hang close all my people. 
when the sun rise veil figure come down and saw their swarm at the bough s end wait patiently within sight of the old hive a handful but prepare to go on. 
the bee and the fly. 
a farmer of the augustan age peruse in virgil s golden page the story of the secret win from proteus by cyrene s son how the dank sea god sow the swain mean to restore his hive again more briefly how a slaughter bull breed honey by the bellyful. 
the egregious rustic put to death a bull by stop of it breath. dispose the carcass in a shed with fragrant herb and branch spread. and have thus perform the charm sit down to wait the promise swarm. 
nor wait long. the god of day impartial quicken with his ray evil and good alike behold the carcass and the carcass swell. big with new birth the belly heave beneath it screen of scent leaf. past any doubt the bull conceive. 
the farmer bid men bring more hive to house the profit that arrive. prepare on pan and key and kettle sweet music that shall make em settle. but when to crown the work he go god. what a stink salute his nose. where be the honest toiler. where the gravid mistress of their care. a busy scene indeed he see but not a sign or sound of bee. worm of the ripe grave unhid by any kindly coffin lid obscene and shameless to the light seethe in insatiate appetite through putrid offal. while above the hiss blow fly seek his love whose offspring sup where they supt consume corruption twice corrupt. 
with the night mail. 
a story of a. d. 
together with extract from the magazine in which it appear. 
a nine o clock of a gusty winter night i stand on the low stage of one of the g. p. o. outward mail tower. my purpose be a run to quebec in postal packet or such other a may be appoint. and the postmaster general himself countersign the order. this talisman open all door even those in the despatch caisson at the foot of the tower where they be deliver the sort continental mail. the bag lay pack close a herring in the long grey underbody which our g. p. o. still call coach. five such coach be fill a i watch and be shoot up the guide to be lock on to their wait packet three hundred foot near the star. 
from the despatch caisson i be conduct by a courteous and wonderfully learn official mr. l. l. geary second despatcher of the western route to the captain room. this wake an echo of old romance. where the mail captain come on for their turn of duty. he introduce me to the captain of captain purnall and his relief captain hodgson. the one be small and dark. the other large and red. but each ha the brood sheathe glance characteristic of eagle and aeronaut. you can see it in the picture of our race professional from l. v. rautsch to little ada warrleigh that fathomless abstraction of eye habitually turn through naked space. 
on the notice board in the captain room the pulse arrow of some twenty indicator register degree by geographical degree the progress of a many homeward bind packet. the word cape rise across the face of a dial. a gong strike. the south african mid weekly mail be in at the highgate receive tower. that be all. it remind one comically of the traitorous little bell which in pigeon fancier loft notify the return of a homer. 
time for u to be on the move say captain purnall and we be shoot up by the passenger lift to the top of the despatch tower. our coach will lock on when it be fill and the clerk be aboard. 
no. wait for u in slip e of the topmost stage. the great curve of her back shine frostily under the light and some minute alteration of trim make her rock a little in her hold down slip. 
captain purnall frown and dive inside. hiss softly come to rest a level a a rule. from her north atlantic winter nose cap. wear bright a diamond with bore through uncounted league of hail snow and ice. to the inset of her three build out propeller shaft be some two hundred and forty foot. her extreme diameter carry well forward be thirty seven. contrast this with the nine hundred by ninety five of any crack liner and you will realize the power that must drive a hull through all weather at more than the emergency speed of the cyclonic. 
the eye detect no joint in her skin plat save the sweep hair crack of the bow rudder magniac s rudder that assure u the dominion of the unstable air and leave it inventor penniless and half blind. it be calculate to castelli s gullwing curve. raise a few foot of that all but invisible plate three eighth of an inch and she will yaw five mile to port or starboard ere she be under control again. give her full helm and she return on her track like a whip lash. cant the whole forward a touch on the wheel will suffice and she sweep at your good direction up or down. open the complete circle and she present to the air a mushroom head that will bring her up all stand within a half mile. 
yes say captain hodgson answer my think castelli think he d discover the secret of control aeroplane when he d only find out how to steer dirigible balloon. magniac invent his rudder to help war boat ram each other. and war go out of fashion and magniac he go out of his mind because he say he couldn t serve his country any more. i wonder if any of u ever know what we re really do. 
if you want to see the coach lock you d good go aboard. it s due now say mr. geary. i enter through the door amidships. there be nothing here for display. the inner skin of the gas tank come down to within a foot or two of my head and turn over just short of the turn of the bilge. liner and yacht disguise their tank with decoration but the g. p. o. serf them raw under a lick of grey official paint. the inner skin shut off fifty foot of the bow and a much of the stern but the bow bulkhead be recess for the lift shunt apparatus a the stern be pierce for the shaft tunnel. the engine room lie almost amidships. forward of it extend to the turn of the bow tank be an aperture a bottomless hatch at present into which our coach will be lock. one look down over the coaming three hundred foot to the despatch caisson whence voice boom upward. the light below be obscure to a sound of thunder a our coach rise on it guide. it enlarge rapidly from a postage stamp to a play card. to a punt and last a pontoon. the two clerk it crew do not even look up a it come into place. the quebec letter fly under their finger and leap into the docket rack while both captain and mr. geary satisfy them self that the coach be lock home. a clerk pass the way bill over the hatch coaming. captain purnall thumb mark and pass it to mr. geary. receipt ha be give and take. pleasant run say mr. geary and disappear through the door which a foot high pneumatic compressor lock after him. 
a ah. sigh the compressor release. our hold down clip part with a tang. we be clear. 
captain hodgson open the great colloid underbody porthole through which i watch over light london slide eastward a the gale get hold of u. the first of the low winter cloud cut off the well know view and darken middlesex. on the south edge of it i can see a postal packet s light plough through the white fleece. for an instant she gleam like a star ere she drop toward the highgate receive tower. the bombay mail say captain hodgson and look at his watch. she s forty minute late. 
what s our level. i ask. 
four thousand. aren t you come up on the bridge. 
the bridge. let u ever praise the g. p. o. a a repository of ancient tradition. be represent by a view of captain hodgson s leg where he stand on the control platform that run thwart ship overhead. the bow colloid be unshuttered and captain purnall one hand on the wheel be feel for a fair slant. the dial show foot. it s steep to night he mutter a tier on tier of cloud drop under. we generally pick up an easterly draught below three thousand at this time o the year. i hate slather through fluff. 
so doe van cutsem. look at him huntin for a slant. say captain hodgson. a foglight break cloud a hundred fathom below. the antwerp night mail make her signal and rise between two race cloud far to port her flank blood red in the glare of sheerness double light. the gale will have u over the north sea in half an hour but captain purnall let her go composedly nose to every point of the compass a she rise. 
five thousand six six thousand eight hundred the dip dial read ere we find the easterly drift herald by a flurry of snow at the thousand fathom level. captain purnall ring up the engine and key down the governor on the switch before him. there be no sense in urge machinery when eolus himself give you good knot for nothing. we be away in earnest now our nose notch home on our choose star. at this level the low cloud be lay out all neatly comb by the dry finger of the east. below that again be the strong westerly blow through which we rise. overhead a film of southerly drift mist draw a theatrical gauze across the firmament. the moonlight turn the low stratum to silver without a stain except where our shadow underruns u. bristol and cardiff double light. those statelily incline beam over severnmouth. be dead ahead of u. for we keep the southern winter route. coventry central the pivot of the english system stab upward once in ten second it spear of diamond light to the north. and a point or two off our starboard bow the leek the great cloud breaker of saint david s head swing it unmistakable green beam twenty five degree each way. there must be half a mile of fluff over it in this weather but it doe not affect the leek. 
our planet s over light if anything say captain purnall at the wheel a cardiff bristol slide under. i remember the old day of common white vertical that ud show two or three hundred foot up in a mist if you know where to look for em. in really fluffy weather they might a well have be under your hat. one could get lose come home then an have some fun. now it s like drive down piccadilly. 
he point to the pillar of light where the cloud breaker bore through the cloud floor. we see nothing of england s outline. only a white pavement pierce in all direction by these manhole of variously colour fire holy island s white and red st. bee s interrupt white and so on a far a the eye can reach. bless be sargent ahrens and the dubois brother who invent the cloud breaker of the world whereby we travel in security. 
be you go to lift for the shamrock. ask captain hodgson. cork light. green fix. enlarge a we rush to it. captain purnall nod. there be heavy traffic hereabouts the cloud bank beneath u be streak with run fissure of flame where the atlantic boat be hurry londonward just clear of the fluff. mail packet be suppose under the conference rule to have the five thousand foot lane to themselves but the foreigner in a hurry be apt to take liberty with english air. no. lift to a long draw wail of the breeze in the fore flange of the rudder and we make valencia. white green white. at a safe foot dip our beam to an incoming washington packet. 
there be no cloud on the atlantic and faint streak of cream round dingle bay show where the drive sea hammer the coast. a big s. a. t. a. liner. societe anonyme de transport aeriens. be dive and lift half a mile below u in search of some break in the solid west wind. low still lie a disable dane she be tell the liner all about it in international. our general communication dial ha catch her talk and begin to eavesdrop. captain hodgson make a motion to shut it off but check himself. perhaps you d like to listen he say. 
argol of st. thomas the dane whimper. report owner three starboard shaft collar bearing fuse. can make flores a we be but impossible further. shall we buy spare at fayal. 
the liner acknowledge and recommend invert the bearing. the argol answer that she ha already do so without effect and begin to relieve her mind about cheap german enamel for collar bearing. the frenchman assent cordially cry courage mon ami and switch off. 
then light sink under the curve of the ocean. 
that s one of lundt & bleamers boat say captain hodgson. serf em right for put german compos in their thrust block. she win t be in fayal to night. by the way wouldn t you like to look round the engine room. 
i have be wait eagerly for this invitation and i follow captain hodgson from the control platform stoop low to avoid the bulge of the tank. we know that fleury s gas can lift anything a the world famous trial of show but it almost indefinite power of expansion necessitate vast tank room. even in this thin air the lift shunt be busy take out one third of it normal lift and still must be check by an occasional downdraw of the rudder or our flight would become a climb to the star. captain purnall prefer an overlifted to an underlifted ship. but no two captain trim ship alike. when i take the bridge say captain hodgson you ll see me shunt forty per cent of the lift out of the gas and run her on the upper rudder. with a swoop upward instead of a swoop downward a you say. either way will do. it s only habit. watch our dip dial. tim fetch her down once every thirty knot a regularly a breathe. 
so be it show on the dip dial. for five or six minute the arrow creep from to. there be the faint szgee of the rudder and back slide the arrow to on a fall slant of ten or fifteen knot. 
in heavy weather you jockey her with the screw a well say captain hodgson and unclipping the joint bar which divide the engine room from the bare deck he lead me on to the floor. here we find fleury s paradox of the bulk head vacuum which we accept now without think literally in full blast. the three engine be h. t. &t. assist vacuo fleury turbine run from to the limit that be to say up to the point when the blade make the air bell cut out a vacuum for themselves precisely a over drive marine propeller use to do. s limit be low on account of the small size of her nine screw which though handy than the old colloid thelussons bell sooner. the midships engine generally use a a reinforce be not run. so the port and starboard turbine vacuum chamber draw direct into the return main. 
the turbine whistle reflectively. from the low arch expansion tank on either side the valve descend pillarwise to the turbine chest and thence the obedient gas whirl through the spiral of blade with a force that would whip the teeth out of a power saw. behind be it own pressure hold in leash of spur on by the lift shunt. before it the vacuum where fleury s ray dance in violet green band and whirl turbillons of flame. the joint u tube of the vacuum chamber be pressure temper colloid. no glass would endure the strain for an instant. and a junior engineer with tint spectacle watch the ray intently. it be the very heart of the machine a mystery to this day. even fleury who beget it and unlike magniac die a multi millionaire could not explain how the restless little imp shudder in the u tube can in the fractional fraction of a second strike the furious blast of gas into a chill greyish green liquid that drain. you can hear it trickle. from the far end of the vacuum through the eduction pipe and the main back to the bilge. here it return to it gaseous one have almost write sagacious state and climb to work afresh. bilge tank upper tank dorsal tank expansion chamber vacuum main return. a a liquid. and bilge tank once more be the ordain cycle. fleury s ray see to that. and the engineer with the tint spectacle see to fleury s ray. if a speck of oil if even the natural grease of the human finger touch the hood terminal fleury s ray will wink and disappear and must be laboriously build up again. this mean half a day s work for all hand and an expense of one hundred and seventy odd pound to the g. p. o. for radium salt and such trifle. 
now look at our thrust collar. you win t find much german compo there. full jewel you see say captain hodgson a the engineer shunt open the top of a cap. our shaft bearing be c. m. c. commercial mineral company. stone grind with a much care a the lens of a telescope. they cost l apiece. so far we have not arrive at their term of life. these bearing come from no. which take them over from the old dominion of light which have them out of the wreck of the persew aeroplane in the year when men still fly wooden kite over oil engine. 
they be a shin reproof to all low grade german ruby enamel so call boort facing and the dangerous and unsatisfactory alumina compound which please dividend hunt owner and turn skipper crazy. the rudder gear and the gas lift shunt seat side by side under the engine room dial be the only machine in visible motion. the former sigh from time to time a the oil plunger rise and fall half an inch. the latter case and guard like the u tube aft exhibit another fleury ray but invert and more green than violet. it function be to shunt the lift out of the gas and this it will do without watch. that be all. a tiny pump rod wheeze and whine to itself beside a sputter green lamp. a hundred and fifty foot aft down the flat top tunnel of the tank a violet light restless and irresolute. between the two three white paint turbine trunk like eel basket lay on their side accentuate the empty perspective. you can hear the trickle of the liquefy gas flow from the vacuum into the bilge tank and the soft gluck glock of gaslocks close a captain purnall bring down by the head. the hum of the turbine and the boom of the air on our skin be no more than a cotton wool wrap to the universal stillness. and we be run an eighteen second mile. 
i peer from the fore end of the engine room over the hatch coaming into the coach. the mail clerk be sort the winnipeg calgary and medicine hat bag. but there be a pack of card ready on the table. 
suddenly a bell thrill. the engineer run to the turbine valve and stand by. but the spectacled slave of the ray in the u tube never lift his head. he must watch where he be. we be hard brake and go astern. there be language from the control platform. 
tim s spark badly about something say the unruffled captain hodgson. let s look. 
captain purnall be not the suave man we leave half an hour since but the embody authority of the g. p. o. ahead of u float an ancient aluminum patch twin screw tramp of the dingy with no more right to the foot lane than ha a horse cart to a modern road. she carry an obsolete barbette con tower a six foot affair with rail platform forward and our warn beam play on the top of it a a policeman s lantern flash on the area sneak. like a sneak thief too emerge a shock head navigator in his shirt sleeve. captain purnall wrench open the colloid to talk with him man to man. there be time when science doe not satisfy. 
what under the star be you do here you sky scrap chimney sweep. he shout a we two drift side by side. do you know this be a mail lane. you call yourself a sailor sir. you ain t fit to peddle toy balloon to an esquimaux. your name and number. report and get down and be. 
i ve be blow up once the shock head man cry hoarsely a a dog bark. i don t care two flip of a contact for anything you can do postey. 
don t you sir. but i ll make you care. i ll have you tow stern first to disko and break up. you can t recover insurance if you re break for obstruction. do you understand that. 
then the strange bellow. look at my propeller. there s be a wulli wa down below that ha knock u into umbrella frame. we ve be blow up about forty thousand foot. we re all one conjuror s watch inside. my mate s arm s break. my engineer s head s cut open. my ray go out when the engine smash. and. and. for pity s sake give me my height captain. we doubt we re drop. 
six thousand eight hundred. can you hold it. captain purnall overlook all insult and lean half out of the colloid star and snuff. the strange leak pungently. 
we ought to blow into st. john s with luck. we re try to plug the fore tank now but she s simply whistle it away her captain wail. 
she s sink like a log say captain purnall in an undertone. call up the bank mark boat george. our dip dial show that we keep abreast the tramp have drop five hundred foot the last few minute. 
captain purnall press a switch and our signal beam begin to swing through the night twizzling spoke of light across infinity. 
that ll fetch something he say while captain hodgson watch the general communicator. he ha call up the north bank mark boat a few hundred mile west and be report the case. 
i ll stand by you captain purnall roar to the lone figure on the con tower. 
be it a bad a that. come the answer. she isn t insure. she s mine. 
might have guess a much mutter hodgson. owner s risk be the bad risk of all. 
can t i fetch st. john s not even with this breeze. the voice quaver. 
stand by to abandon ship. haven t you any lift in you fore or aft. 
nothing but the midship tank and they re none too tight. you see my ray give out and he cough in the reek of the escape gas. 
you poor devil. this doe not reach our friend. what doe the mark boat say george. 
want to know if there s any danger to traffic. say she s in a bite of weather herself and can t quit station. i ve turn in a general call so even if they don t see our beam some one s bind to help or else we must. shall i clear our sling. hold on. here we be. a planet liner too. she ll be up in a tick. 
tell her to have her sling ready cry his brother captain. there win t be much time to spare. tie up your mate he roar to the tramp. 
my mate s all right. it s my engineer. he s go crazy. 
shunt the lift out of him with a spanner. hurry. 
but i can make st. john s if you ll stand by. 
you ll make the deep wet atlantic in twenty minute. you re le than fifty eight hundred now. get your paper. 
a planet liner east bind heave up in a superb spiral and take the air of u hum. her underbody colloid be open land her transporter sling hang down like tentacle. we shut off our beam a she adjust herself steer to a hair over the tramp s con tower. the mate come up his arm strap to his side and stumble into the cradle. a man with a ghastly scarlet head follow shout that he must go back and build up his ray. the mate assure him that he will find a nice new ray all ready in the liner s engine room. the bandage head go up wag excitedly. a youth and a woman follow. the liner cheer hollowly above u and we see the passenger face at the saloon colloid. 
that s a pretty girl. what s the fool wait for now. say captain purnall. 
the skipper come up still appeal to u to stand by and see him fetch st. john s. he dive below and return at which we little human being in the void cheer loud than ever with the ship s kitten. up fly the liner s hiss sling. her underbody crash home and she hurtle away again. the dial show le than foot. the mark boat signal we must attend to the derelict now whistle her death song a she fall beneath u in long sick zigzag. 
keep our beam on her and send out a general warn say captain purnall follow her down. there be no need. not a liner in air but know the mean of that vertical beam and give u and our quarry a wide berth. 
but she ll drown in the water win t she. i ask. not always be his answer. i ve know a derelict up end and sift her engine out of herself and flicker round the low lane for three week on her forward tank only. we ll run no risk. pith her george and look sharp. there s weather ahead. 
captain hodgson open the underbody colloid swing the heavy pith iron out of it rack which in liner be generally case a a smoke room settee and at two hundred foot release the catch. we hear the whir of the crescent shape arm open a they descend. the derelict s forehead be punch in star across and rent diagonally. she fall stern first our beam upon her. slide like a lose soul down that pitiless ladder of light and the atlantic take her. 
a filthy business say hodgson. i wonder what it must have be like in the old day. 
the think have cross my mind too. what if that waver carcass have be fill with the men of the old day each one of them teach. that be the horror of it. that after death he would very possibly go for ever to unspeakable torment. 
and scarcely a generation ago we. one know now that we be only our father re enlarge upon the earth. we i say rip and ram and pith to admiration. 
here tim from the control platform shout that we be to get into our inflator and to bring him his at once. 
we hurry into the heavy rubber suit the engineer be already dress and inflate at the air pump tap. g. p. o. inflator be thrice a thick a a race man s flicker and chafe abominably under the armpit. george take the wheel until tim ha blow himself up to the extreme of rotundity. if you kick him off the c. p. to the deck he would bounce back. but it be that will do the kick. 
the mark boat s mad stark ravin crazy he snort return to command. she say there s a bad blow out ahead and want me to pull over to greenland. i ll see her pith first. we waste half an hour fuss over that dead duck down under and now i m expect to go rubbin my back all round the pole. what doe she think a postal packet s make of. gum silk. tell her we re come on straight george. 
george buckle him into the frame and switch on the direct control. now under tim s leave toe lie the port engine accelerator. under his leave heel the reverse and so with the other foot. the lift shunt stop stand out on the rim of the steer wheel where the finger of his leave hand can play on them. at his right hand be the midships engine lever ready to be throw into gear at a moment s notice. he lean forward in his belt eye glue to the colloid and one ear cock toward the general communicator. henceforth he be the strength and direction of through whatever may befall. 
the bank mark boat be reel out page of a. b. c. direction to the traffic at large. we be to secure all loose object. hood up our fleury ray. and on no account to attempt to clear snow from our con tower till the weather abate. under power craft we be tell can ascend to the limit of their lift mail packet to look out for them accordingly. the low lane westward be pit very badly with frequent blow out vortex lateral etc. 
still the clear dark hold up unblemished. the only warn be the electric skin tension. i feel a though i be a lace maker s pillow. and an irritability which the gibber of the general communicator increase almost to hysteria. 
we have make eight thousand foot since we pith the tramp and our turbine be give u an honest two hundred and ten knot. 
very far to the west an elongate blur of red low down show u the north bank mark boat. there be speck of fire round her rise and fall bewilder planet about an unstable sun helpless ship hang on to her light for company s sake. no wonder she could not quit station. 
she warn u to look out for the back wash of the bad vortex in which. her beam show it. she be even now reel. 
the pit of gloom about u begin to fill with very faintly luminous film wreathe and uneasy shape. one form itself into a globe of pale flame that wait shiver with eagerness till we sweep by. it leap monstrously across the blackness alight on the precise tip of our nose pirouette there an instant and swing off. our roar bow sink a though that light be lead sink and recover to lurch and stumble again beneath the next blow out. tim s finger on the lift shunt strike chord of number. and so on. for he be run by his tank only lift or lower her against the uneasy air. all three engine be at work for the sooner we have skate over this thin ice the good. high we dare not go. the whole upper vault be charge with pale krypton vapour which our skin friction may excite to unholy manifestation. between the upper and low level and hint the mark boat we may perhaps bolt through if. our bow clothe itself in blue flame and fall like a sword. no human skill can keep pace with the change tension. a vortex ha u by the beak and we dive down a two thousand foot slant at an angle. the dip dial and my bounce body record it. of thirty five. our turbine scream shrilly. the propeller cannot bite on the thin air. tim shunt the lift out of five tank at once and by sheer weight drive her bullet wise through the maelstrom till she cushion with jar on an up gust three thousand foot below. 
now we ve do it say george in my ear. our skin friction that last slide ha play old harry with the tension. look out for lateral tim. she ll want some hold. 
i ve get her be the answer. come up old woman. 
she come up nobly but the lateral buffet her leave and right like the pinion of angry angel. she be jolt off her course four way at once and cuff into place again only to be swing aside and drop into a new chaos. we be never without a corposant grin on our bow or roll head over heel from nose to midships and to the crackle of electricity around and within u be add once or twice the rattle of hail hail that will never fall on any sea. slow we must or we may break our back pitch pole. 
air s a perfectly elastic fluid roar george above the tumult. about a elastic a a head sea off the fastnet ain t it. 
he be le than just to the good element. if one intrude on the heaven when they be balance their volt account. if one disturb the high god market rate by hurl steel hull at ninety knot across tremblingly adjust electric tension one must not complain of any rudeness in the reception. tim meet it with an unmoved countenance one corner of his under lip catch up on a tooth his eye fleet into the blackness twenty mile ahead and the fierce spark fly from his knuckle at every turn of the hand. now and again he shake his head to clear the sweat trickle from his eyebrow and it be then that george watch his chance would slide down the life rail and swab his face quickly with a big red handkerchief. i never imagine that a human be could so continuously labour and so collectedly think a do tim through that hell s half hour when the flurry be at it bad. we be drag hither and yon by warm or freeze suction belch up on the top of wulii be spin down by vortex and club aside by lateral under a dizzy rush of star in the company of a drunken moon. 
i hear the rush click of the midship engine lever slide in and out the low growl of the lift shunt and loud than the yell wind without the scream of the bow rudder gouge into any lull that promise hold for an instant. at last we begin to claw up on a cant bow rudder and port propeller together. only the nice balance of tank save u from spin like the rifle bullet of the old day. 
we ve get to hitch to windward of that mark boat somehow george cry. 
there s no windward i protest feebly where i swing shackle to a stanchion. how can there be. 
he laugh a we pitch into a thousand foot blow out that red man laugh beneath his inflate hood. 
look. he say. we must clear those refugee with a high lift. 
the mark boat be below and a little to the sou west of u fluctuate in the centre of her distraught galaxy. the air be thick with move light at every level. i take it most of them be try to lie head to wind but not be hydra they fail. an under tank moghrabi boat have rise to the limit of her lift and find no improvement have drop a couple of thousand. there she meet a superb wulli wa and be blow up spin like a dead leaf. instead of shut off she go astern and naturally rebound a from a wall almost into the mark boat whose language. our g. c. take it in. be humanly simple. 
if they d only ride it out quietly it ud be good say george in a calm while we climb like a bat above them all. but some skipper will navigate without enough lift. what doe that tad boat think she be do tim. 
playin kiss in the ring be tim s unmoved reply. a trans asiatic direct liner have find a smooth and butt into it full power. but there be a vortex at the tail of that smooth so the t. a. d. be flip out like a pea from off a finger nail brake madly a she flee down and all but over end. 
now i hope she s satisfy say tim. i m glad i m not a mark boat. do i want help. the general communicator dial have catch his ear. george you may tell that gentleman with my love love remember george that i do not want help. who be the officious sardine tin. 
a rimouski drogher on the look out for a tow. 
very kind of the rimouski drogher. this postal packet isn t be tow at present. 
those droghers will go anywhere on a chance of salvage george explain. we call em kittiwake. 
a long beak bright steel ninety footer float at ease for one instant within hail of u her sling coil ready for rescue and a single hand in her open tower. he be smoke. surrender to the insurrection of the air through which we tear our way he lay in absolute peace. i saw the smoke of his pipe ascend untroubled ere his boat drop it seem like a stone in a well. 
we have just clear the mark boat and her disorderly neighbour when the storm end a suddenly a it have begin. a shoot star to northward fill the sky with the green blink of a meteorite dissipate itself in our atmosphere. 
say george. that may iron out all the tension. even a he speak the conflict wind come to rest. the level fill. the lateral die out in long easy swell. the air way be smooth before u. in le than three minute the covey round the mark boat have ship their power light and whir away upon their business. 
what s happen. i gasp. the nerve store within and the volt tingle without have pass. my inflator weigh like lead. 
god he know. say captain george soberly that old shoot star s skin friction ha discharge the different level. i ve see it happen before. phew. what a relief. 
we drop from ten to six thousand and get rid of our clammy suit. tim shut off and step out of the frame. the mark boat be come up behind u. he open the colloid in that heavenly stillness and mop his face. 
hello williams. he cry. a degree or two out o station ain t you. 
may be be the answer from the mark boat. i ve have some company this even. 
so i notice. wasn t that quite a little draught. 
i warn you. why didn t you pull out north. the east bind packet have. 
me. not till i m run a polar consumptive sanatorium boat. i be squint through a colloid before you be out of your cradle my son. 
i d be the last man to deny it the captain of the mark boat reply softly. the way you handle her just now i m a pretty fair judge of traffic in a volt hurry it be a thousand revolution beyond anything even i ve ever see. 
tim s back supple visibly to this oil. captain george on the c. p. wink and point to the portrait of a singularly attractive maiden pin up on tim s telescope bracket above the steer wheel. 
i see. wholly and entirely do i see. 
there be some talk overhead of come round to tea on friday a brief report of the derelict s fate and tim volunteer a he descend. for an a. b. c. man young williams be le of a high tension fool than some. be you think of take her on george. then i ll just have a look round that port thrust seem to me it s a trifle warm and we ll jog along. 
the mark boat hum off joyously and hang herself up in her appoint eyrie. here she will stay a shutterless observatory. a life boat station. a salvage tug. a court of ultimate appeal cum meteorological bureau for three hundred mile in all direction till wednesday next when her relief slide across the star to take her buffet place. her black hull double con tower and ever ready sling represent all that remain to the planet of that odd old word authority. she be responsible only to the aerial board of control the a. b. c. of which tim speak so flippantly. but that semi elect semi nominate body of a few score of person of both sex control this planet. transportation be civilisation our motto run. theoretically we do what we please so long a we do not interfere with the traffic and all it imply. practically the a. b. c. confirm or annul all international arrangement and to judge from it last report find our tolerant humorous lazy little planet only too ready to shift the whole burden of public administration on it shoulder. 
i discus this with tim sip mate on the c. p. while george fan her along over the white blur of the bank in beautiful upward curve of fifty mile each. the dip dial translate them on the tape in flow freehand. 
tim gather up a skein of it and survey the last few foot which record s path through the volt flurry. 
i haven t have a fever chart like this to show up in five year he say ruefully. 
a postal packet s dip dial record every yard of every run. the tape then go to the a. b. c. which collate and make composite photograph of them for the instruction of captain. tim study his irrevocable past shake his head. 
hello. here s a fifteen hundred foot drop at fifty five degree. we must have be stand on our head then george. 
you don t say so george answer. i fancy i notice it at the time. 
george may not have captain purnall s catlike swiftness but he be all an artist to the tip of the broad finger that play on the shunt stop. the delicious flight curve come away on the tape with never a waver. the mark boat s vertical spindle of light lie down to eastward set in the face of the follow star. westward where no planet should rise the triple vertical of trinity bay. we keep still to the southern route. make a low lift haze. we seem the only thing at rest under all the heaven. float at ease till the earth s revolution shall turn up our land tower. 
and minute by minute our silent clock give u a sixteen second mile. 
some fine night say tim we ll be even with that clock s master. 
he s come now say george over his shoulder. i m chase the night west. 
the star ahead dim no more than if a film of mist have be draw under unobserved but the deep airboom on our skin change to a joyful shout. 
the dawn gust say tim. it ll go on to meet the sun. look. look. there s the dark be cram back over our bow. come to the after colloid. i ll show you something. 
the engine room be hot and stuffy. the clerk in the coach be asleep and the slave of the ray be ready to follow them. tim slide open the aft colloid and reveal the curve of the world the ocean s deep purple edge with fume and intolerable gold. 
then the sun rise and through the colloid strike out our lamp. tim scowl in his face. 
squirrel in a cage he mutter. that s all we be. squirrel in a cage. he s go twice a fast a u. just you wait a few year my shin friend and we ll take step that will amaze you. we ll joshua you. 
yes that be our dream. to turn all earth into the yale of ajalon at our pleasure. so far we can drag out the dawn to twice it normal length in these latitude. but some day even on the equator we shall hold the sun level in his full stride. 
now we look down on a sea throng with heavy traffic. a big submersible break water suddenly. another and another follow with a swash and a suck and a savage bubble of relieve pressure. the deep sea freighter be rise to lung up after the long night and the leisurely ocean be all pattern with peacock s eye of foam. 
we ll lung up too say tim and when we return to the c. p. george shut off the colloid be open and the fresh air sweep her out. there be no hurry. the old contract. they will be revise at the end of the year. allow twelve hour for a run which any packet can put behind her in ten. so we breakfast in the arm of an easterly slant which push u along at a languid twenty. 
to enjoy life and tobacco begin both on a sunny morning half a mile or so above the dapple atlantic cloud belt and after a volt flurry which ha clear and temper your nerve. while we discuss the thicken traffic with the superiority that come of have a high level reserve to ourselves we hear. and i for the first time. the morning hymn on a hospital boat. 
she be cloak by a skein of ravel fluff beneath u and we catch the chant before she rise into the sunlight. oh ye wind of god sing the unseen voice. bless ye the lord. praise him and magnify him for ever. 
we slide off our cap and join in. when our shadow fell across her great open platform they look up and stretch out their hand neighbourly while they sing. we could see the doctor and the nurse and the white button like face of the cot patient. she pass slowly beneath u head northward her hull wet with the dew of the night all ablaze in the sunshine. so take she the shadow of a cloud and vanish her song continue. oh ye holy and humble men of heart bless ye the lord. praise him and magnify him for ever. 
she s a public lunger or she wouldn t have be sing the benedicite. and she s a greenlander or she wouldn t have snow blind over her colloid say george at last. she ll be bind for frederikshavn or one of the glacier sanatorium for a month. if she be an accident ward she d be hang up at the eight thousand foot level. yes consumptive. 
funny how the new thing be the old thing i ve read in book tim answer that savage use to haul their sick and wound up to the top of hill because microbe be few there. we hoist em in sterilize air for a while. same idea. how much do the doctor say we ve add to the average life of man. 
thirty year say george with a twinkle in his eye. be we go to spend em all up here tim. 
flap ahead then. flap ahead. who s hinder. the senior captain laugh a we go in. 
we hold a good lift to clear the coastwise and continental ship. and we have need of it. though our route be in no sense a populate one there be a steady trickle of traffic this way along. we meet hudson bay furrier out of the great preserve hurry to make their departure from bonavista with sable and black fox for the insatiable market. we overcossed keewatin liner small and cramp. but their captain who see no land between trepassy and lanco know what gold they bring back from west erica. trans asiatic direct we meet soberly ring the world round the fiftieth meridian at an honest seventy knot. and white paint ackroyd & hunt fruiters out of the south flee beneath u their ventilate hull whistle like chinese kite. their market be in the north among the northern sanatoria where you can smell their grape fruit and banana across the cold snow. argentine beef boat we sight too of enormous capacity and unlovely outline. they too fee the northern health station in icebound port where submersible dare not rise. 
yellow belly ore flat and ungava petrol tank punt down leisurely out of the north like string of unfrightened wild duck. it doe not pay to fly mineral and oil a mile farther than be necessary. but the risk of transhipping to submersible in the ice pack off nain or hebron be so great that these heavy freighter fly down to halifax direct and scent the air a they go. they be the big tramp aloft except the athabasca grain tub. but these last now that the wheat be move be busy over the world s shoulder timber lift in siberia. 
we hold to the st. lawrence. it be astonish how the old water way still pull u child of the air. and follow his broad line of black between it drift iceblocks all down the park that the wisdom of our father but every one know the quebec run. 
we drop to the height receive tower twenty minute ahead of time and there hang at ease till the yokohama intermediate packet could pull out and give u our proper slip. it be curious to watch the action of the hold down clip all along the frosty river front a the boat clear or come to rest. a big hamburger be leave pont levi and her crew unshipping the platform railing begin to sing elsinore the old of our chantey. you know it of course. 
mother rugen s tea house on the baltic forty couple waltz on the floor. and you can watch my ray for i must go away and dance with ella sweyn at elsinore. 
then while they sweat home the cover plate. 
nor nor nor nor west from sourabaya to the baltic ninety knot an hour to the skaw. mother rugen s tea house on the baltic and a dance with ella sweyn at elsinore. 
the clip part with a gesture of indignant dismissal a though quebec glitter under her snow be cast out these light and unworthy lover. our signal come from the height. tim turn and float up but surely then it be with passionate appeal that the great tower arm fling open or do i think so because on the upper stag a little hood figure also open her arm wide toward her father. 
* * * * * * * *. 
in ten second the coach with it clerk clash down to the receive caisson. the hostler displace the engineer at the idle turbine and tim proud of this than all introduce me to the maiden of the photograph on the shelf. and by the way say he to her step forth in sunshine under the hat of civil life i saw young williams in the mark boat. i ve ask him to tea on friday. 
aerial board of control. 
light. 
no change in english inland light for week end dec. th. 
cape verde week end dec. verde incline guide light change from st proximo to triple flash green white green in place of occult red a heretofore. the warn light for harmattan wind will be continuous vertical glare. white. on all oasis of trans saharan n. e. by e. main route. 
invercargil. n. z. from st prox. extreme southerly light. double red. will exhibit white beam incline degree on approach of southerly buster. traffic fly high off this coast between april and october. 
table bay devil s peak glare remove to simonsberg. traffic make table mountain coastwise keep all light from three anchor bay at least two thousand foot under and do not round to till east of e. shoulder devil s peak. 
sandheads light green triple vertical mark new private land stage for bay and burma traffic only. 
snaefell jokul white occult light withdraw for winter. 
patagonia no summer light south cape pilar. this include staten island and port stanley. 
c. navarin quadruple fog flash. white. one minute interval. new. 
east cape fog flash single white with single bomb sec. interval. new. 
malayan archipelago light unreliable owe eruption. lay from cape somerset to singapore direct keep high level. 
for the board. 
catterthun } st. just } light. van hedder }. 
casualty. 
week end dec. th. 
sable island green single barbette tower freighter number indistinguishable up end and fore tank pierce after collision pass ft. level q p. a dec. th. watch to water and pith by mark boat. 
n. f. bank postal packet report halma freighter. fowey st. john s. abandon leak after weather n. w. crew rescue by planet liner asteroid. watch to water and pith by postal packet dec. th. 
kerguelen mark boat report last call from cymena freighter. gay tong huk & co. take water and sink in snow storm south mcdonald island. no wreckage recover. message and will of crew at all a. b. c. office. 
fezzan t. a. d. freighter ulema take grind during harmattan on akakus range. under plate strain. crew at ghat where repair dec. th. 
biscay mark boat report caducci. valandingham line. slightly spike in western gorge point de benasdue. passenger transfer andorra. fulton line. barcelona mark boat salve cargo dec. th. 
ascension mare boat wreck of unknown race plane parden rudder wire stiffen xylonite van and harliss engine seat sight and salve s. w. dec. th. photo at all a. b. c. office. 
miss. 
no answer to general call have be receive during the last week from follow overdues they be post a miss. 
atlantis w. canton valparaiso audhumla w. stockholm odessa berenice w. riga vladivostock draw e. coventry pons arena tontine e. c. wrath ungava wu sing e. hankow lobito bay. 
general call. all mark boat. out for. 
jane eyre w. port rupert city of mexico santander w. gobi desert manila y. edmundsun e. kandahar fiume. 
break for obstruction and quit level. 
valkyrie. race plane. a. j. hartley owner new york. twice warn. geisha. race plane. s. van cott owner philadelphia. twice warn. marvel of peru. race plane. j. x. peixoto owner rio de janeiro. twice warn. for the board. 
lazareff } mckeough } traffic goldbratt }. 
note. 
high level sleet. 
the northern weather so far show no sign of improvement. from all quarter come complaint of the unusual prevalence of sleet at the high level. race plane and dig alike have suffer severely the former from unequal deposit of half freeze slush on their van. and only those who have hold up a badly balance plane in a cross wind know what that mean. and the latter from load bow and snow case body. a a consequence the northern and north western upper level have be practically abandon and the high flier have return to the ignoble security of the three five and six hundred foot level. but there remain a few undaunted sun hunter who in spite of freeze stay and ice jam connect rod still haunt the blue empyrean. 
bat boat race. 
the scandal of the past few year have at last move the yacht world to concert action in regard to bat boat race. we have be treat to the spectacle of what be practically keel race plane drive a clear five foot or more above the water and only ease down to touch their so call native element a they near the line. judge and starter have be conveniently blind to this absurdity but the public demonstration off st. catherine s light at the autumn regatta ha bear ample if tardy fruit. in the future the bat be to be a boat and the long unheeded demand of the true sportsman for no daylight under mid keel in smooth water be in a fair way to be concede. the new rule severely restrict plane area and lift alike. the gas compartment be permit both fore and aft a in the old type but the water ballast central tank be render obligatory. these thing work if not for perfection at least for the evolution of a sane and wholesome waterborne cruiser. the type of rudder be unaffected by the new rule so we may expect to see the long davidson make. the patent on which ha just expire. come largely into use henceforward though the strain on the sternpost in turn at speed over forty mile an hour be admittedly very severe. but bat boat race ha a great future before it. 
crete and the a. b. c. 
the story of the recent cretan crisis a tell in the a. b. c. monthly report be not without humour. till the th october crete a all our planet know be the sole survive european repository of autonomous institution local self government and the rest of the archaic lumber devise in the past for the confusion of human affair. she ha live practically on the tourist traffic attract by her annual pageant of parliament board municipal council etc. etc. last summer the islander grow weary a their premier explain of play at be savage for penny and proceed to pull down all the land tower on the island and shut off general communication till such time a the a. b. c. should annex them. for side split comedy we would refer our reader to the correspondence between the board of control and the cretan premier during the war. however all s well that end well. the a. b. c. have take over the administration of crete on normal line. and tourist must go elsewhere to witness the debate resolution and popular movement of the old day. the only people to suffer will be the board of control which be grievously overwork already. it be easy enough to condemn the cretan for their laziness. but when one recall the large prosperous and presumably public spirit community which during the last few year have deliberately throw themselves into the hand of the a. b. c. one cannot be too hard upon st. paul s old friend. 
correspondence. 
skylark on the equator. 
to the editor. only last week while cross the equator. w. i become aware of a furious and irregular cannonade some fifteen or twenty knot s. e. descend to the ft. level i find a party of transylvanian tourist engage in explode score of the large pattern atmospheric bomb. a. b. c. standard. and in the interval of their please labour fire bow and stern smoke ring swivel. this orgie i can give it no other name go on for at least two hour and naturally produce violent electric derangement. my compass of course be throw out my bow be strike twice and i receive two brisk shock from the low platform rail. on remonstrate i be tell that these professor be engage in scientific experiment. the extent of their scientific knowledge may be judge by the fact that they expect to produce. i give their own word. a little blue sky if they go on long enough. this in the heart of the doldrums at foot. i have no objection to any amount of blue sky in it proper place. it can be find at the level for practically twelve month out of the year. but i submit with all deference to the educational need of transylvania that skylark in the centre of a main travel road where at the best of time electricity literally drip off one s stanchion and screw blade be unnecessary. when my friend have finish the road be sear and blow and pit with unequal pressure layer spiral vortex and readjustment for at least an hour. i pitch badly twice in an upward rush solely due to these diabolical throw down that come near to wreck my propeller. equatorial work at low level be try enough in all conscience without the add terror of scientific hooliganism in the doldrums. 
rhyl. j. vincent mathen. 
[we entirely sympathize with professor mathen s view but till the board see fit to further regulate the southern area in which scientific experiment may be conduct we shall always be expose to the risk which our correspondent describe. unfortunately a chimera bombinate in a vacuum be nowadays only too capable of produce secondary cause. editor. ]. 
answer to correspondent. 
vigilans the law of auroral derangement be still imperfectly understand. any overheat motor may of course seize without warn. but so many complaint have reach u of accident similar to yours while shoot the aurora that we be incline to believe with lavalle that the upper stratum of the aurora borealis be practically one big electric leak and that the paralysis of your engine be due to complete magnetization of all metallic part. low fly plane often glue up when near the magnetic pole and there be no reason in science why the same disability should not be experience at high level when the aurora be deliver strongly. 
indignant on your own show you be not under control. that you could not hoist the necessary n. u. c. light on approach a traffic lane because your electric have short circuit be a misfortune which might befall any one. the a. b. c. be responsible for the planet s traffic cannot however make allowance for this kind of misfortune. a reference to the code will show that you be fin on the low scale. 
planiston. the five thousand kilometre. overland. be win last year by l. v. rautsch. r. m. rautsch his brother in the same week pull off the ten thousand. oversee. r. m. s average work out at a fraction over kilometre per hour thus constitute a record. theoretically there be no limit to the lift of a dirigible. for commercial and practical purpose ton be accept a the most manageable. 
paterfamilias none whatever. he be liable for direct damage both to your chimney and any collateral damage cause by fall of brick into garden etc. etc. bodily inconvenience and mental anguish may be include but the average court be not a a rule sway by sentiment. if you can prove that his grapnel remove any portion of your roof you have good rest your case on decoverture of domicile. see parkins v. duboulay. we sympathize with your position but the night of the th be stormy and confuse and you may have to anchor on a strange s chimney yourself some night. verbum sap. 
aldebaran. war a a pay concern cease in. the convention of london expressly reserve to every nation the right of wag war so long a it doe not interfere with the traffic and all that imply. the a. b. c. be constitute in. 
l. m. p. keep her full head on at half power take advantage of the lull to speed up and creep into it. she will strain much le this way than in quarter across a gale. nothing be to be gain by reverse into a follow gale and there be always risk of a turnover. the formula for stun sle brake be uniformly unreliable and will continue to be so a long a air be compressible. 
pegamoid. personally we prefer glass or flux compound to any other material for winter work nose cap a be absolutely non hygroscopic. we cannot recommend any particular make. 
pulmonar. for the symptom you describe try the gobi desert sanatoria. the low level of most of the saharan sanatoria be against them except at the outset of the disease. we do not recommend board house or hotel in this column. 
beginner on still day the air above a large inhabit city be slightly warm i. e. thin than the atmosphere of the surround country a plane drop a little on enter the rarefy area precisely a a ship sink a little in fresh water. hence the phenomenon of jolt and your inexplicable collision with factory chimney. in air a on earth it be safe to fly high. 
emergency there be only one rule of the road in air earth and water. do you want the firmament to yourself. 
picciola both pole have be overdo in art and literature. leave them to science for the next twenty year. you do not send a stamp with your verse. 
north nigeria the mark boat be within her right in warn you off the reserve. the shadow of a low fly dirigible scare the game. you can buy all the photo you need at sokoto. 
new era it be not etiquette to overcross an a. b. c. official s boat without ask permission. he be one of the body responsible for the planet s traffic and for that reason must not be interfere with. you presumably be out on your own business or pleasure and must leave him alone. for humanity s sake don t try to be democratic. 
excoriate all inflator chafe sooner or late. you must go on till your skin harden by practice. meantime vaseline. 
review. 
the life of xavier lavalle. review by rene talland. ecole aeronautique paris. 
ten year ago lavalle that imperturbable dreamer of the heaven a lazareff hail him gather together the fruit of a lifetime s labour and give it with well justify contempt to a world bind hand and foot to barald s theory of vertex and compensate electric node. they shall see he write in that immortal postscript to the heart of the cyclone the law whose existence they deride write in fire beneath them. 
but even here he continue there be no finality. good a thousand time my conclusion should be discredit than that my dead name should lie across the threshold of the temple of science a bar to further inquiry. 
so die lavalle a prince of the power of the air and even at his funeral cellier jest at him who have go to discover the secret of the aurora borealis. 
if i choose thus to be banal it be only to remind you that collier s theory be today a explode a the ludicrous deduction of the spanish school. in the place of their fugitive and war dream we have definitely lavalle s law of the cyclone which he surprise in darkness and cold at the foot of the overarch throne of the aurora borealis. it be there that i intent on my own investigation have pass and re pass a hundred time the wear leonine face white a the snow beneath him furrow with wrinkle like the seam and gash upon the north cape. the nervous hand integrally a part of the mechanism of his flighter. and above all the wonderful lambent eye turn to the zenith. 
master i would cry a i move respectfully beneath him what be it you seek today. and always the answer clear and without doubt from above. the old secret my son. 
the immense egotism of youth force me on my own path but. cry of the human always. have i know if i have know i would many time have barter my poor laurel for the privilege such a tinsley and herrera posse of have aid him in his monumental research. 
it be to the filial piety of victor lavalle that we owe the two volume consecrate to the grind life of his father so full of the holy intimacy of the domestic hearth. once return from the abysm of the utter north to that little house upon the outskirt of meudon it be not the philosopher the dare observer the man of iron energy that impose himself on his family but a fat and even plaintive jester a farceur incarnate and kindly the co equal of his child and it must be write not seldom the comic despair of madame lavalle who a she write five year after the marriage to her venerable mother find in this unequalled intellect whose name i bear the abandon of a large and very untidy boy. here be her letter. 
xavier return from i do not know where at midnight absorb in calculation on the eternal question of his aurora la belle aurore whom i begin to hate. instead of anchor i have set out the guide light above our roof so he have but to descend and fasten the plane he wander profoundly distract above the town with his anchor down. figure to yourself dear mother it be the roof of the mayor s house that the grapnel first engage. that i do not regret for the mayor s wife and i be not sympathetic. but when xavier uproot my pet araucaria and bear it across the garden into the conservatory i protest at the top of my voice. little victor in his night clothe run to the window enormously amuse at the parabolic flight without reason for it be too dark to see the grapnel of my prize tree. the mayor of meudon thunder at our door in the name of the law demand i suppose my husband s head. here be the conversation through the megaphone xavier be two hundred foot above u. 
mon. lavalle descend and make reparation for outrage of domicile. descend mon. lavalle. 
no one answer. 
xavier lavalle in the name of the law descend and submit to process for outrage of domicile. 
xavier rouse from his calculation comprehend only the last word. outrage of domicile. my dear mayor who be the man that ha corrupt thy julie. 
the mayor furious xavier lavalle. 
xavier interrupt. i have not that felicity. i be only a dealer in cyclone. 
my faith he raise one then. all meudon attend in the street and my xavier after a long time comprehend what he have do excuse himself in a thousand apology. at last the reconciliation be effect in our house over a supper at two in the morning julie in a wonderful costume of compromise and i have her and the mayor pacify in bed in the blue room. 
and on the next day while the mayor rebuild his roof her xavier depart anew for the aurora borealis there to commence his life s work. m. victor lavalle tell u of that historic collision. en plane. on the flank of hecla between herrera then a pillar of the spanish school and the man destine to confute his theory and lead him intellectually captive. even through the year the immense laugh of lavalle a he sustain the spaniard s wreck plane and cry. courage. i shall not fall till i have find truth and i hold you fast. ring like the call of trumpet. this be that lavalle whom the world immerse in speculation of immediate gain do not know nor suspect the lavalle whom they adjudge to the last a pedant and a theorist. 
the human a apart from the scientific side. develop in his own volume. of his epoch make discovery be mark with a simplicity clarity and good sense beyond praise. i would specially refer such a doubt the sustain influence of ancestral faith upon character and will to the eleventh and nineteenth chapter in which be contain the open and consummation of the tellurionical record extend over nine year. of their tremendous significance be sure that the modest house at meudon know a little a that the record would one day be the planet s standard in all official meteorology. it be enough for them that their xavier this son this father this husband ascend periodically to commune with power it might be angelic beyond their comprehension and that they unite daily in prayer for his safety. 
pray for me he say upon the eve of each of his excursion and return with an equal simplicity he render thank after supper in the little room where he keep his barometer. 
to the last lavalle be a catholic of the old school accept he who have look into the very heart of the lightning the dogma of papal infallibility of absolution of confession of relic great and small. marvellous enviable contradiction. 
the completion of the tellurionical record close what lavalle himself be please to call the theoretical side of his labour labour from which the young and least impressionable planeur might well have shrink. he have trace through cold and heat across the deep of the ocean with instrument of his own invention over the inhospitable heart of the polar ice and the sterile visage of the desert league by league patiently unweariedly remorselessly from their ever shift cradle under the magnetic pole to their exalt death bed in the utmost ether of the upper atmosphere each one of the isoconical tellurions lavalle s curve a we call them today. he have disentangle the node of their intersection assign to each it regulate period of flux and reflux. thus equip he summon herrera and tinsley his pupil to the final demonstration a calmly a though he be order his flighter for some mid day journey to marseille. 
i have prove my thesis he write. it remain now only that you should witness the proof. we go to manila to morrow. a cyclone will form off the pescadores s. e. in four day and will reach it maximum intensity twenty seven hour after inception. it be there i will show you the truth. 
a letter heretofore unpublished from herrera to madame lavalle tell u how the master s prophecy be verify. 
i will not destroy it simplicity or it significance by any attempt to quote. note well though that herrera s preoccupation throughout that day and night of superhuman strain be always for the master s bodily health and comfort. 
at such a time he write i force the master to take the broth. or i make him put on the fur coat a you tell me. nor be tinsley. see pp. le concern. he prepare the nourishment. he cook eternally imperturbably suspend in the chaos of which the master interpret the mean. tinsley bow down with the laurel of both hemisphere raise himself to yet noble height in his capacity of a devote chef. it be almost unbelievable. and yet men write of the master a cold aloof self contain. such character do not elicit the joyous and unswerving devotion which lavalle command throughout life. truly we have change very little in the course of the age. the secret of earth and sky and the link that bind them we felicitate ourselves we be on the road to discover. but our neighbour heart and mind we misread we misjudge we condemn now a ever. let all then who love a man read these most human tender and wise volume. 
*************. 
transcriber s note. these advertisement appear in the format that would have be use in a newspaper or magazine ad section that be in two column for the small ad and in quarter half full and double page layout for the others. also l be use a the symbol for pound. 
*************. 

miscellaneous [ want ]. 
require immediately for east africa a thoroughly competent plane and dirigible driver acquaint with petrol radium and helium motor and generator. low level work only but must understand heavy weight dig. mossamedes transport assoc. palestine building e. c. 

man want dig driver for southern alp with saharan summer trip. high level high speed high wage. apply m. sidney hotel san stefano. monte carlo. 

family dirigible. a competent steady man want for slow speed low level tangye dirigible. no night work no sea trip. must be member of the church of england and make himself useful in the garden. m. r. the rectory gray s barton wilt. 

commercial dig central and southern europe. a smart active man for a l. m. t. dig. night work only. headquarter london and cairo. a linguist prefer. bagman char cross hotel w. c. urgent. 

for sale a bargain single plane narrow gauge van pinke motor. restayed this autumn. hansen air kit in. chest collar. can be see by appointment. n. this office. 

the bee line bookshop. 
belt s way book give town light for all town over pop. a lay down by a. b. o. the world. complete vols. thin oxford limp back. l d. belt s coastal itinerary. short light of the world. s. d. the transatlantic and mediterranean traffic line. by authority of the a. b. c. paper s. d. cloth. s. d. ready jan. arctic aeroplaning. siemens and gait. cloth bd. s. d. lavalle s heart of the cyclone with supplementary chart. s. d. rimington s pitfall in the air and table of comparative density s. d. angelo s desert in a dirigible. new edition revise. s. d. vaughan s plane race in calm and storm. s. d. vaughan s hint to the airmateur s. hofman s law of lift and velocity. with diagram s. d. de vitre s theory of shift ballast in dirigible. s. d. sanger weather of the world. s. sanger s temperature at high altitude. s. hawkin s fog and how to avoid it. s. van zuylan s secondary effect of thunderstorm. s. d. dahlgren s air current and epidemic disease. s. d. redmayne s disease and the barometer. s. d. walton s health resort of the gobi and shamo. s. d. walton s the pole and pulmonary complaint. s. ad. mutlows high level bacteriology. s. d. halliwell s illuminate star map with clockwork attachment give apparent motion of heaven box complete with clamp for binnacle inch size only l. invaluable for night work. with a. b. c. certificate. l. s. d. zalinski s standard work. pass of the himalaya s. pass of the sierra s. pass of the rookie. s. pass of the urals s. the four box limp cloth with chart s. gray s air current at mountain gorge s. d. 
a. c. belt & son read safety wear for aeronaut fickers. flicker. flicker. 
high level flicker. 
he that be down need fear no fall fear not. you will fall lightly a down. 
hansen s air kit be down in all respect. tremendous reduction in price previous to winter stock. pure para kit with cellulose seat and shoulder pad weight to balance. unequalled for all drop work. 
our trebly resilient heavy kit be the ne plus ultra of comfort and safety. 
gas buoy waterproof hail proof nonconducting flicker with pipe and nozzle fit all type of generator. graduate tap on leave hip. 
hansen s flicker lead the aerial flight oxford street. 
the new weight flicker with tweed or cheviot surface cannot be distinguish from the ordinary suit till inflate. 
fickers. flicker. flicker. 
appliance for air plane. 
what skid be to our forefather on the grind pitch be to their son in the air. 
the popularity of the large unwieldy slow expensive dirigible over the light swift plane be mainly due to the former s immunity from pitch. 
collison s forward socketed air van render it impossible for any plane to pitch. the c. f. s. be automatic simple a a shutter certain\ a a power hammer safe a oxygen. fit to any make of plane. 
collison brompton road workshop chiswick. 
lundie do matter sole agts for east n hemisphere. 

starter and guide. 
hotel club and private house plane starter slip and guide affix by skilled workman in accordance with local build law. 
rackstraww s forty foot collapsible steel starter with automatic release at end of travel price per foot run clamp and crampon include. the safe on the market. 
weaver & denison middleboro. 

air plane and dirigible good. 

remember. 
plane be swift so be death plane be cheap so be life. 
why doe the plane builder insist on the safety of his machine. methinks the gentleman protest too much. 
the standard dig construction company do not build kite. 
they build equip and guarantee dirigible. 
standard dig construction co. millwall and buenos ayres. 
hover. 
powell s wind hover. 
for plane lie to in heavy weather save the motor and strain on the forebody. will not send to leeward. albatross wind hover rigid rib. accord to h. p. and weight. 
we fit and test free to east of greenwich village. 
l. & w. powell victoria street w. 

remember. 
we shall always be please to see you. 
we build and test and guarantee our dirigible or all purpose. they go up when you please and they do not come down till you please. 
you can please yourself but you might a well choose a dirigible. 
standard dirigible construction co. millwall and buenos ayres. 

gay and hunt birmingham and birmingham eng. ala. 
tower. land stage slip and lift public and private. 
contractor to the a. b. c. south western european postal construction dept. sole patentee and owner of the collison anti quake diagonal tower tie. only gold medal kyoto exhibition of aerial appliance. 

air plane and dirigible. 

c. m. c. our synthetical mineral bearing. 
be chemically and crystal logically identical with the mineral whose name they bear. any size any surface. diamond rock crystal agate and ruby bearing cup cap and collar for the high speed. for tractor bearing and spindle imperative. for rear propeller indispensable. for all work part advisable. 
commercial mineral co. minories. 

resurgam. 
if you have not clothe yourself in a. 
normandie resurgam. 
you will probably not be interest in our next week s list of air kit. 
resurgam air kit emporium. 
hymans & graham low broadway new york. 

remember. 

* it be now nearly a generation since the plane be to supersede the dirigible for all purpose. * to day none of the planet s freight be carry en plane. * le than two per rent of the planet s passenger be carry en plane. 
we design equip guarantee dirigible for all purpose. 
standard dig construction company millwall and buenos ayres. 
bat boat. 
flint & mantel southampton for sale. 
at the end of season the follow bat boat. 
griselda knt. ft. nom. maginnis motor under rake rudder. mabelle knt. ft. hargreaves motor douglas lock steer gear. ivemona knt. ft. hargreaves. radium accelerator. miller keel and rudder. 
the above be well know on the south coast a sound wholesome knockabout boat with ample cruise accommodation. griselda carry spare set of hofman race van and can be lie three foot clear in smooth water with ballast tank swing aft. the others do not lift clear of water and be recommend for beginner. 
also by private treaty race b. b. tarpon. win flag. knt. ft. long davidson double under rake rudder new this season and unstrain. nom. maginnis motor radium relay and pond generator. bronze breakwater forward and treble reinforce forefoot and entry. talfourd rockered keel. triple set of hofman van give maximum lift surface of sq. ft. 
tarpon ha be lift and hold seven foot for two mile between touch and touch. 
our autumn list of race and family bat ready on the th january. 

air plane and starter. 

hinks moderator. 
monorail overhead starter for family and private plane up to twenty five foot over all. 
absolutely safe. 
hinks & co. birmingham j. d. ardagh. 
i be not concern with your plane i after it leaf my guide but till then i hold myself personally responsible for your life safety and comfort. my hydraulic buff stop cannot release till the motor be work up to bear speed thus secure a safe and graceful flight without pitch. 
remember our motto upward and outward and do not trust yourself to so call rigid guide bar. 
j. d. ardagh belfast and turin. 

accessory and spare. 

christian wright & oldis establish. 
accessory and spare. 
hood binnacle with dip dial automatically record change of level. illuminate face. 
all height from to foot l with aerial board of control certificate l foot and hand foghoms. siren tone to any club note. with air chest belt drive horn motor l wireless installation syntonised to a. b. c. requirement in neat mahogany case hundred mile range l. 
grapnel mushroom anchor pith iron winch hawser snap shackle and moor rope for lawn city and public installation. 
detachable under car aluminum or stamp steel. 
keel under car for plane. single action detach gear turn car into boat with one motion of the wrist. invaluable for sea trip. 
head side and rid light. by size. no. to a. b. c. standard. rocket and fog bomb in colour and tone of the principal club. box. a selection of twenty l international night signal. box. l. 
spare generator guarantee to lift power mark on cover. price accord to power. 
wind nose for dirigible pegamoid cane stiffen lacquer cane or aluminum and flux for winter work. 
smoke ring cannon for hail storm swivel mount bow or stern. 
propeller blade. metal tungsten back. paper mache wire stiffen. rib xylonite. nickson s patent. all razor edge. price by pitch and diameter. 
compress steel bow screw for winter work. 
fuse ruby or commercial mineral co. bearing and collar. agate mount thrust block up to inch. 
magniac s bow rudder. lavales patent groove. 
weave steel belting for outboard motor. nonmagnetic. 
radium battery all power to h. p. in pair. 
helium battery all power to h. p. tandem. 
stun sle brake work from upper or low platform. 
direct plunge brake work from low platform only load silk or fibre wind tight. 
catalogue free throughout the planet. 

the four angel. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the earth come down and offer earth in fee. but adam do not need it nor the plough he would not speed it sing. earth and water air and fire what more can mortal man desire. the apple tree s in bud. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the water offer all the sea in fee. but adam would not take em nor the ship he wouldn t make em sing. water earth and air and fire what more can mortal man desire. the apple tree s in leaf. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the air he offer all the air in fee. but adam do not crave it nor the flight he wouldn t brave it sing. air and water earth and fire what more can mortal man desire. the apple tree s in bloom. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the fire rise up and not a word say he. but he wish a fire and make it and in adam s heart he lay it sing. fire fire burn fire stand up and reach your heart s desire. the apple blossom s set. 
a adam be a work outside of eden wall he use the earth he use the sea he use the air and all. and out of black disaster he arise to be the master of earth and water air and fire but never reach his heart s desire. the apple tree s cut down. 
a deal in cotton. 
long and long ago when devadatta be king of benares i write some tale concern strickland of the punjab police. who marry miss youghal. and adam his son. strickland ha finish his indian service and life now at a place in england call weston super mare where his wife play the organ in one of the church. semi occasionally he come up to london and occasionally his wife make him visit his friend. otherwise he play golf and follow the harrier for his figure s sake. 
if you remember that infant who tell a tale to eustace cleever the novelist you will remember that he become a baronet with a vast estate. he ha owe to cookery a little lose his figure but he never lose his friend. i have find a wing of his house turn into a hospital for sick men and there i once spend a week in the company of two dismal nurse and a specialist in sprue. another time the place be full of schoolboy son of anglo indian whom the infant have collect for the holiday and they nearly break his keeper s heart. 
but my last visit be good. the infant call me up by wire and i fell into the arm of a friend of mine colonel a. l. corkran so that the year depart from u and we praise allah who have not yet terminate the delight nor separate the companion. 
say corkran when he have explain how it felt to command a native infantry regiment on the border. the stricks be come for to night with their boy. 
i remember him. the little fellow i write a story about i say. be he in the service. 
no. strick get him into the centro euro africa protectorate. he s assistant commissioner at dupe wherever that be. somaliland ain t it stalky. ask the infant. 
stalky puff out his nostril scornfully. you re only three thousand mile out. look at the atlas. 
anyhow he s a rotten full of fever a the rest of you say the infant at length on the big divan. and he s bring a native servant with him. stalky be an athlete and tell ipps to put him in the stable room. 
why. be he a yao like the fellow wade bring here when your housekeeper have fit. stalky often visit the infant and ha see some odd thing. 
no. he s one of old strickland s punjabi policeman and quite european i believe. 
hooray. haven t talk punjabi for three month and a punjabi from central africa ought to be amusin. 
we hear the chuff of the motor in the porch and the first to enter be agnes strickland whom the infant make no secret of adore. 
he be devote in a fat man s placid way to at least eight design woman. but she nurse him once through a bad bout of peshawur fever and when she be in the house it be more than all hers. 
you didn t send rug enough she begin. adam might have take a chill. 
it s quite warm in the tonneau. why do you let him ride in front. 
because he want to she reply with the mother s smile and we be introduce to the shadow of a young man lean heavily on the shoulder of a beard punjabi mohammedan. 
that be all that come home of him say his father to me. there be nothing in it of the child with whom i have journey to dalhousie century since. 
and what be this uniform. stalky ask of imam din the servant who come to attention on the marble floor. 
the uniform of the protectorate troop sahib. though i be the little sahib s body servant it be not seemly for u white men to be attend by folk dress altogether a servant. 
and and you white men wait at table on horseback. stalky point to the man s spur. 
these i add for the sake of honour when i come to england say imam din adam smile the ghost of a little smile that i begin to remember and we put him on the big couch for refreshment. stalky ask him how much leave he have and he say six month. 
but he ll take another six on medical certificate say agnes anxiously. adam knit his brow. 
you don t want to eh. i know. wonder what my second in command be do. stalky tug his moustache and fell to think of his sikh. 
ah. say the infant. i ve only a few thousand pheasant to look after. come along and dress for dinner. we re just ourselves. what flower be your honour s ladyship command for the table. 
just ourselves. she say look at the croton in the great hall. then let s have marigold the little cemetery one. 
so it be order. 
now marigold to u mean hot weather discomfort part and death. that smell in our nostril and adam s servant in wait we naturally fell back more and more on the old slang recall at each glass those who have go before. we do not sit at the big table but in the bay window overlook the park where they be cart the last of the hay. when twilight fell we would not have candle but wait for the moon and continue our talk in the dusk that make one remember. 
young adam be not interest in our past except where it have touch his future. i think his mother hold his hand beneath the table. imam din shoeless out of respect to the floor bring him his medicine pour it drop by drop and ask for order. 
wait to take him to his cot when he grow weary say his mother and imam din retire into the shadow by the ancestral portrait. 
now what d you expect to get out of your country. the infant ask when our india lay aside we talk adam s africa. it rouse him at once. 
rubber nut gum and so on he say. but our real future be cotton. i grow fifty acre of it last year in my district. 
my district. say his father. hear him mummy. 
i do though. i wish i could show you the sample. some manchester chap say it be a good a any sea island cotton on the market. 
but what make you a cotton planter my son. she ask. 
my chief say every man ought to have a shouk. a hobby. of sort and he take the trouble to ride a day out of his way to show me a belt of black soil that be just the thing for cotton. 
ah. what be your chief like. stalky ask in his silky tone. 
the best man alive absolutely. he let you blow your own nose yourself. the people call him adam jerk out some heathen phrase that mean the man with the stone eye you know. 
i m glad of that. because i ve hear from other quarter stalky s sentence burn like a slow match but the explosion be not long delay. other quarter. adam throw out a thin hand. every dog ha his flea. if you listen to them of course. the shake of his head be a i remember it among his father s policeman twenty year before and his mother s eye shin through the dusk call on me to adore it. i kick stalky on the shin. one must not mock a young man s first love or loyalty. 
a lump of raw cotton appear on the table. 
i think there might be a need. therefore i pack it between our shirt say the voice of imam din. 
doe he know a much english a that. cry the infant who have forget his east. 
we all admire the cotton for adam s sake and indeed it be very long and glossy. 
it s it s only an experiment he say. we re such awful pauper we can t even pay for a mailcart in my district. we use a biscuit box on two bicycle wheel. i only get the money for that he pat the stuff by a pure fluke. 
how much do it cost. ask strickland. 
with seed and machinery about two hundred pound. i have the labour do by cannibal. 
that sound promise. stalky reach for a fresh cigarette. 
no thank you say agnes. i ve be at weston super mare a little too long for cannibal. i ll go to the music room and try over next sunday s hymn. 
she lift the boy s hand lightly to her lip and trip across the acre of glimmer floor to the music room that have be the infant s ancestor banquet hall. her grey and silver dress disappear under the musician gallery. two electric break out and she stand back against the line of gild pipe. 
there s an abominable self play attachment here. she call. 
me. the infant answer his napkin on his shoulder. that s how i play parsifal. 
i prefer the direct expression. take it away ipps. 
we hear old ipps skate obediently all over the floor. 
now for the direct expression say stalky and move on the burgundy recommend by the faculty to enrich fever thin blood. 
it s nothing much. only the belt of cotton soil my chief show me run right into the sheshaheli country. we haven t be able to prove cannibalism against that tribe in the court. but when a sheshaheli offer you four pound of woman s breast tattoo mark and all skewer up in a plantain leaf before breakfast you. 
naturally burn the village before lunch say stalky. 
adam shake his head. no troop he sigh. i tell my chief about it and he say we must wait till they chop a white man. he advise me if ever i felt like it not to commit a a barren felo de se but to let the sheshaheli do it. then he could report and then we could mop em up. 
most immoral. that s how we get stalky quote the name of a province win by just such a sacrifice. 
yes but the beast dominate one end of my cotton belt like anything. they chivy me out of it when i go to take soil for analysis me and imam din. 
sahib. be there a need. the voice come out of the darkness and the eye shine over adam s shoulder ere it cease. 
none. the name be take in talk. adam abolish him with a turn of the finger. i couldn t make a casus belli of it just then because my chief have take all the troop to hammer a gang of slave king up north. do you ever hear of our war against ibn makarrah. he precious nearly lose u the protectorate at one time though he s an ally of ours now. 
wasn t he rather a pernicious brute even a they go. say stalky. wade tell me about him last year. 
well his nickname all through the country be the merciful and he didn t get that for nothing. none of our people ever breathe his proper name. they say he or that one and they didn t say it aloud either. he fight u for eight month. 
i remember. there be a paragraph about it in one of the paper i say. 
we break him though. no the slaver don t come our way because our men have the reputation of die too much the first month after they re capture. that knock down profit you see. 
what about your charm friend the sheshahelis. say the infant. 
there s no market for sheshaheli. people would a soon buy crocodile. i believe before we annex the country ibn makarrah drop down on em once to train his young men and simply hew em in piece. the bulk of my people be agriculturist just the right stamp for cotton grower. what s mother play. once in royal. 
the organ that have be croon a happily a a woman over her babe restore steady to a tune. 
magnificent. oh magnificent. say the infant loyally. i have never hear him sing but once and then though it be early in the tolerant morning his mess have roll him into a lotus pond. 
how do you get your cannibal to work for you. ask strickland. 
they get convert to civilization after my chief smash ibn makarrah just at the time i want em. you see my chief have promise me in write that if i could scrape up a surplus he would not bag it for his road this time but i might have it for my cotton game. i only need two hundred pound. our revenue didn t run to it. 
what be your revenue. stalky ask in the vernacular. 
with hut tax trader game and mine license not more than fourteen thousand rupee. every penny of it ear mark month ahead. adam sigh. 
also there be a fine for dog stray in the sahib s camp. last year it exceed three rupee imam din say quietly. 
well i think that be fair. they howl so. we be rather strict on fine. i work up my native clerk bulaki ram to a ferocious pitch of enthusiasm. he use to calculate the profit of our cotton scheme to three point of decimal after office. i tell you i envy your magistrate here haul money out of motorist every week i have manage to make our ordinary revenue and expenditure just about meet and i be crazy to get the odd two hundred pound for my cotton. that sort of thing grow on a chap when he s alone and talk aloud. 
hul lo. have you be there already. the father say and adam nod. 
yes. use to spout what i could remember of marmion to a tree sir. well then my luck turn. one even an english speak nigger come in tow a corpse by the foot. you get use to little thing like that. he say he d find it and please would i identify because if it be one of ibn makarrah s men there might be a reward. it be an old mohammedan with a strong dash of arab a smallboned bald head chap and i be just wonder how it have keep so well in our climate when it sneeze. you ought to have see the nigger. he fetch a howl and bolt like like the dog in tom sawyer when he sit on the what s it name beetle. he yelp a he run and the corpse go on sneeze. i could see it have be sarkied. that s a sort of gum poison pater which attack the nerve centre. our chief medical officer be write a monograph about it. so imam din and i empty out the corpse one time with my shave soap and trade gunpowder and hot water. 
i d see a case of sarkie before. so when the skin peel off his foot and he stop sneeze i know he d live. he be bad though. lay like a log for a week while imam din and i massage the paralysis out of him. then he tell u he be a hajji have be three time to mecca come in from french africa and that he d meet the nigger by the wayside just like a case of thuggee in india and the nigger have poison him. that seem reasonable enough by what i know of coast nigger. 
you believe him. say his father keenly. 
there be no reason i shouldn t. the nigger never come back and the old man stay with me for two month adam return. you know what the best type of a mohammedan gentleman can be pater. he be that. 
none fine none fine be the answer. 
except a sikh stalky grunt. 
he d be to bombay. he know french africa inside out. he could quote poetry and the koran all day long. he play chess you don t know what that mean to me like a master. we use to talk about the regeneration of turkey and the sheik ul islam between move. oh everything under the sun we talk about. he be awfully open mind. he believe in slavery of course but he quite saw that it would have to die out. that s why he agree with me about develop the resource of the district by cotton grow you know. 
you talk of that too. say strickland. 
rather. we discuss it for hour. you don t know what it mean to me. a wonderful man. imam din be not our hajji marvellous. 
most marvellous. it be all through the hajji that we find the money for our cotton play. imam din have move i fancy behind strickland s chair. 
yes. it must have be dead against his conviction too. he bring me news when i be down with fever at dupe that one of ibn makarrah s men be parade through my district with a bunch of slave in the fork. 
what s the matter with the fork that you can t abide it. say stalky. adam s voice have rise at the last word. 
local etiquette sir he reply too earnest to notice stalky s atrocious pun. if a slaver run slave through british territory he ought to pretend that they re his servant. hawkin em about in the fork the fork stick that you put round their neck you know be insolence same a not back your topsail in the old day. besides it unsettle the district. 
i think you say slaver didn t come your way i put in. 
they don t. but my chief be smoke em out of the north all that season and they be bolt into french territory any road they could find. my order be to take no notice so long a they circulate but open slave deal in the fork be too much. i couldn t go myself so i tell a couple of our makalali police and imam din to make talk with the gentleman one time. it be rather risky and it might have be expensive but it turn up trump. they be back in a few day with the slaver. he didn t show fight. and a whole crowd of witness and we try him in my bedroom and fin him properly. just to show you how demoralize the brute must have be. arab often go dotty after a defeat. he d snap up four or five utterly useless sheshaheli and be offer em to all and sundry along the road. why he offer em to you didn t he imam din. 
i be witness that he offer man eater for sale say imam din. 
luckily for my cotton scheme that land him both way. you see he have slave and expose slave for sale in british territory. that mean the double fine if i could get it out of him. 
what be his defence. say strickland late of the punjab police. 
a far a i remember but i have a temperature of degree at the time he d mistake the meridian of longitude. think he be in french territory. say he d never do it again if we d let him off with a fine. i could have shake hand with the brute for that. he pay up cash like a motorist and go off one time. 
do you see him. 
ye e. didn t i imam din. 
assuredly the sahib both saw and speak to the slaver. and the sahib also make a speech to the man eater when he free them and they swear to supply him with labour for all his cotton play. the sahib lean on his own servant s shoulder the while. 
i remember something of that. i remember bulaki ram give me the paper to sign and i distinctly remember him lock up the money in the safe two hundred and ten beautiful english sovereign. you don t know what that mean to me. i believe it cure my fever. and a soon a i could i stagger off with the hajji to interview the sheshaheli about labour. then i find out why they have be so keen to work. it wasn t gratitude. their big village have be hit by lightning and burn out a week or two before and they lay flat in row around me ask me for a job. i give it em. 
and so you be very happy. his mother have steal up behind u. you like your cotton dear. she tidy the lump away. 
by jove i be happy. adam yawn. now if any one he look at the infant care to put a little money into the scheme it ll be the make of my district. i can t give you figure sir but i assure. 
you ll take your arsenic and imam din ll take you up to bed and i ll come and tuck you in. 
agnes lean forward her round elbow on his shoulder hand join across his dark hair and isn t he a darling. she say to u with just the same heart rend lift to the leave eyebrow and the same break of her voice a send strickland mad among the horse in the year. we be quiet when they be go. we wait till imam din return to u from above and cough at the door a only dark hearted asia can. 
now say strickland tell u what truly befall son of my servant. 
all befall a our sahib ha say. only only there be an arrangement a little arrangement on account of his cotton play. 
tell. sit. i beg your pardon infant say strickland. 
but the infant have already make the sign and we hear imam din hunker down on the floor. one get little out of the east at attention. 
when the fever come on our sahib in our roof house at dupe he begin the hajji listen intently to his talk. he expect the name of woman. though i have already tell him that our virtue be beyond belief or compare and that our sole desire be this cotton play. be at last convince the hajji breathe on our sahib s forehead to sink into his brain news concern a slave dealer in his district who have make a mock of the law. sahib imam din turn to strickland our sahib answer to those false word a a horse of blood answer to the spur. he sit up. he issue order for the apprehension of the slavedealer. then he fell back. then we leave him. 
alone servant of my son and son of my servant. say his father. 
there be an old woman which belong to the hajji. she have come in with the hajji s money belt. the hajji tell her that if our sahib die she would die with him. and truly our sahib have give me order to depart. 
be mad with fever eh. 
what could we do sahib. this cotton play be his heart s desire. he talk of it in his fever. therefore it be his heart s desire that the hajji go to fetch. doubtless the hajji could have give him money enough out of hand for ten cottonplays. but in this respect also our sahib s virtue be beyond belief or compare. great one do not exchange money. therefore the hajji say and i help with my counsel that we must make arrangement to get the money in all respect conformable with the english law. it be great trouble to u but the law be the law. and the hajji show the old woman the knife by which she would die if our sahib die. so i accompany the hajji. 
know who he be. say strickland. 
no. fear the man. a virtue go out from him overbear the virtue of less person. the hajji tell bulaki ram the clerk to occupy the seat of government at dupe till our return. bulaki ram fear the hajji because the hajji have often gloatingly appraise his skill in figure at five thousand rupee upon any slave block. the hajji then say to me. come and we will make the man eater play the cotton game for my delight s delight the hajji love our sahib with the love of a father for his son of a save for his saviour of a great one for a great one. but i say. we cannot go to that sheshaheli place without a hundred rifle. we have here five. the hajji say. i have untie a knot in my head handkerchief which will be more to u than a thousand. i saw that he have so loose it that it lay flagwise on his shoulder. then i know that he be a great one with virtue in him. 
we come to the highland of the sheshaheli on the dawn of the second day about the time of the stir of the cold wind. the hajji walk delicately across the open place where their filth be and scratch upon the gate which be shut. when it open i saw the man eater lie on their cot under the eaves of the hut. they roll off. they rise up one behind the other the length of the street and the fear on their face be a leaf whiten to a breeze. the hajji stand in the gate guard his skirt from defilement. the hajji say. i be here once again. give me six and yoke up. they zealously then push to u with pole six and yoke them with a heavy tree. the hajji then say. fetch fire from the morning hearth and come to windward. the wind be strong on those headland at sunrise so when each have empty his crock of fire in front of that which be before him the broadside of the town roar into flame and all go. the hajji then say. at the end of a time there will come here the white man ye once chase for sport. he will demand labour to plant such and such stuff. ye be that labour and your spawn after you. they say lift their head a very little from the edge of the ash. we be that labour and our spawn after u. the hajji say. what be also my name. they say. thy name be also the merciful the hajji say. praise then my mercy. and while they do this the hajji walk away i follow. 
the infant make some noise in his throat and reach for more burgundy. 
about noon one of our six fell dead. fright only fright sahib. none have none could touch him. since they be in pair and the other of the fork be mad and sing foolishly we wait for some heathen to do what be needful. there come at last angari men with goat. the hajji say. what do ye see. they say. oh our lord we neither see nor hear. the hajji say. but i command ye to see and to hear and to say. they say. oh our lord it be to our command eye a though slave stand in a fork. the hajji say. so testify before the officer who wait you in the town of dupe. they say. what shall come to u after. the hajji say. the just reward for the informer. but if ye do not testify then a punishment which shall cause bird to fall from the tree in terror and monkey to scream for pity. hear this the angari men hasten to dupe. the hajji then say to me. be those thing sufficient to establish our case or must i drive in a village full. i say that three witness amply establish any case but a yet i say the hajji have not offer his slave for sale. it be true a our sahib say just now there be one fine for catch slave and yet another for make to sell them. and it be the double fine that we need sahib for our sahib s cotton play. we have fore arrange all this with bulaki ram who know the english law and i think the hajji remember but he grow angry and cry out. o god refuge of the afflict must i who be what i be peddle this dog s meat by the roadside to gain his delight for my heart s delight. none the le he admit it be the english law and so he offer me the six five in a small voice with an avert head. the sheshaheli do not smell of sour milk a heathen should. they smell like leopard sahib. this be because they eat men. 
maybe say strickland. but where be thy wit. one witness be not sufficient to establish the fact of a sale. 
what could we do sahib. there be the hajji s reputation to consider. we could not have call in a heathen witness for such a thing. and moreover the sahib forget that the defendant himself be make this case. he would not contest his own evidence. otherwise i know the law of evidence well enough. 
so then we go to dupe and while bulaki ram wait among the angari men i run to see our sahib in bed. his eye be very bright and his mouth be full of upside down order but the old woman have not loosen her hair for death. the hajji say. be quick with my trial. i be not job. the hajji be a learn man. we make the trial swiftly to a sound of soothe voice round the bed. yet yet because no man can be sure whether a sahib of that blood see or doe not see we make it strictly in the manner of the form of the english law. only the witness and the slave and the prisoner we keep without for his nose s sake. 
then he do not see the prisoner. say strickland. 
i stand by to shackle up an angari in case he should demand it but by god s favour he be too far fevered to ask for one. it be quite true he sign the paper. it be quite true he saw the money put away in the safe two hundred and ten english pound and it be quite true that the gold work on him a a strong cure. but a to his see the prisoner and have speech with the man eater the hajji breathe all that on his forehead to sink into his sick brain. a little a ye have hear ha remain. ah but when the fever break and our sahib call for the fine book and the thin little picture book from europe with the picture of plough and hoe and cotton= dmills ah then he laugh a he use to laugh sahib. it be his heart s desire this cotton play. the hajji love him a who doe not. it be a little little arrangement sahib of which be it necessary to tell all the world. 
and when didst thou know who the hajji be. say strickland. 
not for a certainty till he and our sahib have return from their visit to the sheshaheli country. it be quite true a our sahib say the man eater lay flat around his foot and ask for spade to cultivate cotton. that very night when i be cook the dinner the hajji say to me. i go to my own place though god know whether the man with the stone eye have leave me an ox a slave or a woman. i say. thou art then that one. the hajji say. i be ten thousand rupee reward into thy hand. shall we make another law case and get more cotton machine for the boy. i say. what dog be i to do this. may god prolong thy life a thousand year. the hajji say. who ha see to morrow. god ha give me a it be a son in my old age and i praise him. see that the breed be not lose. 
he walk then from the cook place to our sahib s office table under the tree where our sahib hold in his hand a blue envelope of service newly come in by runner from the north. at this fear evil news for the hajji i would have restrain him but he say. we be both great one. neither of u will fail. our sahib look up to invite the hajji to approach before he open the letter but the hajji stand off till our sahib have well open and well read the letter. then the hajji say. be it permit to say farewell. our sahib stab the letter on the file with a deep and joyful breath and cry a welcome. the hajji say. i go to my own place and he loose from his neck a chain heart of ambergris set in soft gold and hold it forth. our sahib snatch it swiftly in the close fist down turn and say if thy name be write hereon it be needle for a name be already engrave on my heart. the hajji say. and on mine also be a name engrave. but there be no name on the amulet. the hajji stoop to our sahib s foot but our sahib raise and embrace him and the hajji cover his mouth with his shoulder cloth because it work and so he go away. 
and what order be in the service letter. stalky murmur. 
only an order for our sahib to write a report on some new cattle sickness. but all order come in the same make of envelope. we could not tell what order it might have be. 
when he open the letter my son make he no sign. a cough. an oath. strickland ask. 
none sahib. i watch his hand. they do not shake. afterward he wipe his face but he be sweat before from the heat. 
do he know. do he know who the hajji be. say the infant in english. 
i be a poor man. who can say what a sahib of that get know or doe not know. but the hajji be right. the breed should not be lose. it be not very hot for little child in dupe and a regard nurse my sister s cousin at jull. 
h m. that be the boy s own concern. i wonder if his chief ever know. say strickland. 
assuredly say imam din. on the night before our sahib go down to the sea the great sahib the man with the stone eye din with him in his camp i be in charge of the table. they talk a long while and the great sahib say. what didst thou think of that one. we do not say ibn makarrah yonder. our sahib say. which one. the great sahib say. that one which teach thy man eater to grow cotton for thee. he be in thy district three month to my certain knowledge and i look by every runner that thou wouldst send me in his head. our sahib say. if his head have be need another man should have be appoint to govern my district for he be my friend. the great sahib laugh and say. if i have need a less man in thy place be sure i would have send him a if i have need the head of that one be sure i would have send men to bring it to me. but tell me now by what mean didst thou twist him to thy use and our profit in this cotton play. our sahib say. by god i do not use that man in any fashion whatever. he be my friend. the great sahib say. toh vac. bosh. tell. our sahib shake his head a he doe a he do when a child and they look at each other like sword play men in the ring at a fair. the great sahib drop his eye first and he say. so be it. i should perhaps have answer thus in my youth. no matter. i have make treaty with that one a an ally of the state. some day he shall tell me the tale. then i bring in fresh coffee and they cease. but i do not think that one will tell the great sahib more than our sahib tell him. 
wherefore. i ask. 
because they be both great one and i have observe in my life that great one employ word very little between each other in their dealing. still le when they speak to a third concern those dealing. also they profit by silence. now i think that the mother ha come down from the room and i will go rub his foot till he sleep. 
his ear have catch agnes s step at the stair head and presently she pass u on her way to the music room hum the magnificat. 
the new knighthood. 
who give him the bath. i say the wet rank jungle sweat i ll give him the bath. 
who ll sing the psalm. we say the palm. ere the hot wind becalm we ll sing the psalm. 
who lay on the sword. i say the sun before he ha do i ll lay on the sword. 
who fasten his belt. i say short ration i know all the fashion of tighten a belt. 
who buckle his spur. i say his chief exact and brief i ll give him the spur. 
who ll shake his hand. i say the fever and i m no deceiver i ll shake his hand. 
who bring him the wine. i say quinine it s a habit of mine i ll come with his wine. 
who ll put him to proof. i say all earth whatever he s worth i ll put to the proof. 
who ll choose him for knight. i say his mother before any other my very own knight. 
and after this fashion adventure to seek be sir galahad make a it might be last week. 
the puzzler. 
i have not see penfentenyou since the middle ninety when he be minister of way and woodsides in de thouar s first administration. last summer though he nominally hold the same portfolio he be his colony s premier in all but name and the idol of his own province which be two and a half time the size of england. politically his creed be his grow country. and he come over to england to develop a great idea in her behalf. 
believe that he have put it in train i make haste to welcome him to my house for a week. 
that he be chase to my door by his own agent general in a motor. that they turn my study into a cabinet meet which i be not invite to attend. that the local telegraph all but break down beneath the strain of hundred word cod cable. and that i practically break into the house of a strange to get him telephonic facility on a sunday be thing i overlook. what i object to be his ingratitude while i thus tear up england to help him. so i say. why on earth didn t you see your opposite number in town instead of bring your office work here. 
eh. who. say he look up from his fourth cable since lunch. 
see the english minister for way and woodsides. 
i saw him say penfentenyou without enthusiasm. 
it seem that he have call twice on the gentleman but without an appointment. i think if i wasn t big enough my business be. and each time have find him engage. a third party intervene suggest that a meet might be arrange if due notice be give. 
then say penfentenyou i call at the office at ten o clock. 
but they d be in bed i cry. 
one of the baby be awake. he tell me that that my sort of question he slap the pile of cable be only take between and p. m. so i wait. 
and when you get to business. i ask. 
he make a gesture of despair. it be like talk to child. they d never hear of it. 
and your opposite number. 
penfentenyou describe him. 
hush. you mustn t talk like that. i shudder. he s one of the best of good fellow. you should meet him socially. 
i ve do that too he say. have you. 
heaven forbid. i cry. but that s the proper thing to say. 
oh he say all the proper thing. only i think a this be england that they d more or le have the hang of all the general hang together of my idea. but i have to explain it from the begin. 
ah. they d probably mislay the paper i say and i tell him the story of a three million pound insurrection cause by a deputy under secretary sit upon a mass of green label correspondence instead of read it. 
i wonder it doesn t happen every week the answer. d you mind my have the agent general to dinner again tonight. i ll wire and he can motor down. 
the agent general arrive two hour late a patient and expostulate person visibly tear between the pull devil of a rampant colony and the placid baker of a largely uninterested england. but with penfentenyou behind him he have work. for he tell u that lord lundie the law lord be the final authority on the legal and constitutional aspect of the great idea and to him it must be refer. 
good heaven alive. thunder penfentenyou. i tell you to get that settle last christmas. 
it be the middle of the house party season say the agent general mildly. lord lundie s at credence green now he spend his holiday there. it s only forty mile off. 
shan t i disturb his holiness. say penfentenyou heavily. perhaps my sort of question he snort mayn t be discuss except at midnight. 
oh don t be a child i say. 
what this country need say penfentenyou be and for ten minute he trumpet rebellion. 
what you need be to pay for your own protection i cut in when he draw breath and i show him a yellowish paper supply gratis by government which be call schedule d. to my merciless delight he have never see the thing before and i complete my victory over him and all the colony with a brassey s naval annual and a statesman s year book. 
the agent general interpose with agent generality. but they be merely provocateur. about tie of sentiment. 
they be blow. say penfentenyou. what s the good of sentiment towards a kindergarten. 
quite so. tie of common funk be the thing that bind u together. and the sooner you new nation realize it the good. what you need be an annual invasion. then you d grow up. 
thank you. thank you. say the agent general. that s what i be always try to tell my people. 
but my dear fool penfentenyou almost weep do you pretend that these banana finger amateur at home be grow up. 
you poor serious pagan man i retort if you take em that way you ll wreck your great idea. 
will you take him to lord lundie s to morrow. say the agent general promptly. 
i suppose i must i say if you win t. 
not me. i m go home say the agent general and depart. i be glad that i be no colony s agent general. 
penfentenyou continue to argue about naval contribution till. a. m. though i be victor from the first. 
at ten o clock i get him and his correspondence into the motor and he have the decency to ask whether he have be unpolished over night. i reply that i wait an apology. this he make excuse for renew argument and use wayside show a illustration of the decadence of england. 
for example we burst a tyre within a mile of credence green and to save time walk into the beautifully keep little village. his eye be catch by a build of pale blue tin stencil calvinist chapel before whose shutter window an italian organ grinder with a petticoated monkey be play dolly grey. 
yes. that s it. snap the egoist. that s a parable of the general situation in england. and look at those brute. a huge household removal van be halt at a public house. the men in charge be drink beer from blue and white mug. it seem to me a pretty sight but penfentenyou say it represent our national attitude. 
lord lundie s summer rest place we learn be a farm a little out of the village up a hill round which curl a high hedge road. only an initiate few spend their holiday at credence green and they have train the householder to keep the place select. penfentenyou make a grievance of this a we walk up the lane follow at a distance by the organ grinder. 
suppose he be have a house party he say. anything s possible in this insane land. 
just at that minute we find ourselves opposite an empty villa. it roof be of black slate with bright unweathered ridge tile. it wall be of blood colour brick corner and band with vermiculate stucco work and there be cobalt magenta and pure apple green window glass on either side of the front door. the whole be fence from the road by a low brick pillared flint wall top with a cast iron gothic rail pick out in blue and gold. 
tight bed of geranium calceolaria and lobelia speckle the glass plat from whose centre rise one of the fine araucaria. it other name by the way be monkey puzzler. that it ha ever be my lot to see. it must have be full thirty foot high and it foliage exquisitely answer the iron railing. such bijou ne plus ultras replete with all the amenity do not a i point out to penfentenyou transpire outside of england. 
a hedge swing sharp right flank the garden and above it on a slope of daisy dot meadow we could see lord lundie s tile and half timbered summer farmhouse. of a sudden we hear voice behind the tree the fine full tone of the unembarrassed english speak to their equal that tear through the hedge like sleet through rafter. 
that it be not call monkey puzzler for nothing i willingly concede this be a rich and roll note but on the other hand. 
i submit me lud that the name imply that it might could would or should be ascend by a monkey and not that the ascent be a physical impossibility. i believe one of our south american spider monkey wouldn t hesitate. by jove it might be worth try if. 
this be a crisp voice than the first. a third high pitch and full of pleasant affectation break in. 
oh practical men there be no ape here. why do you waste one of god s own day on unprofitable discussion. give me a match. 
i ve a good mind to make you demonstrate in your own person. come on bubble. we ll make jimmy climb. 
there be a sound of scuffle break by squeak from jimmy of the high voice. i turn back and draw penfentenyou into the side of the flank hedge. i remember to have read in a society paper that lord lundie s less name be bubble. 
what be they do. penfentenyou say sharply. drink. 
just play. superabundant vitality of the race you know. we ll watch em i answer. the noise cease. 
my deliver jimmy gasp. the ram catch in the thicket and i m the only one who can talk neapolitan. leggo my collar. he cry aloud in a foreign tongue and be answer from the gate. 
it s the calvinistic organ grinder i whisper. i have already find a practicable break at the bottom of the hedge. they re go to try to make the monkey climb i believe. 
here let me look. penfentenyou fling himself down and root till he too break a peep hole. we lay side by side command the entire garden at ten yard range. 
you know em. say penfentenyou a i make some noise or other. 
by sight only. the big fellow in flannel be lord lundie. the light build one with the yellow beard paint his picture at the last academy. he s a swell r. a. jam loman. 
and the brown chap with the hand. 
tomling sir christopher tomling the south american engineer who build the. 
san juan viaduct. i know say penfentenyou. we ought to have have him with u. do you think a monkey would climb the tree. 
the organ grinder at the gate fence his beast with one arm a jimmy talk. 
don t show off your futile accomplishment say lord lundie. tell him it s an experiment. interest him. 
shut up bubble. you aren t in court jimmy reply. this need delicacy. giuseppe say. 
interest the monkey the brown engineer interrupt. he win t climb for love. cut up to the house and get some biscuit bubble sugar one and an orange or two. no need to tell our womenfolk. 
the huge white figure lob off at a trot which would not have disgrace a boy of seventeen. i gather from something jimmy let fall that the three have be at harrow together. 
that tomling ha a head on his shoulder mutter penfentenyou. pity we didn t get him for the colony. but the question be will the monkey climb. 
be quick jimmy. tell the man we ll give him five bob for the loan of the beast. now run the organ under the tree and we ll dress it when bubble come back sir christopher cry. 
i ve often wonder say penfentenyou whether it would puzzle a monkey. he have forget the need of his grow nation and be earnestly part the white thorn stem with his finger. 
* * * * * * * * * *. 
giuseppe and jimmy do a they be tell the monkey follow them with a wary and malignant eye. 
here s a discovery say jimmy. the sing part of this organ come off the wheel. he speak volubly to the proprietor. oh it s so a giuseppe can take it to his room o night. and play it. d you hear that. the organ grinder after his day s crime play his accurse machine for love. for love chris. and michael angelo be one of em. 
don t jaw. tell him to take the beast s petticoat off say sir christopher tomling. 
lord lundie return very little wind through a gap high up the hedge. 
they re all out thank goodness. he cry but i ve raid what i could. macron glaces candy fruit and a bag of orange. 
excellent. say the world renowned contractor. 
jimmy you re the light weight. jump up on the organ and impale these thing on the leaf a i hand em. 
i see say jimmy caper like a springbuck. upward and onward eh. first he ll reach out for how infernal prickly these leaf be. this biscuit. next we ll lure him on. that s about the reach of his arm. with the marron glare and then he ll open out this orange. how human. how like your ignoble career bubble. 
with care and elaboration they ornament that tree s low branch with sugar top biscuit orange bit of banana and marrons glare till it look very ape s path to paradise. 
unchain the gyascutis. say sir christopher commandingly. giuseppe place the monkey atop of the organ where the beast misunderstand stand on his head. 
he s throw himself on the mercy of the court me lud say jimmy. no now he s interest. now he s reach after high thing. what wouldn t i give to have here. he mention a name not unhonoured in british art. ambition pluck apple of sodom. the monkey have prick himself and be swear. genius hamper by convention. oh there s a whole bushelful of allegory in it. 
give him time. he s balance the probability say lord lundie. 
the three close round the monkey hang on his every motion with an earnestness almost equal to ours. the great judge s head seam and vertical forehead iron mouth and pike like under jaw all set on that thick neck rise out of the white flannelled collar be throw against the pucker green silk of the organ front a it might have be a cameo of titus. jimmy with raise eye and part lip finger his grizzle chestnut beard and i be near enough to note the capable beauty of his hand. sir christopher stand a little apart his arm fold behind his back one heavy brown boot thrust forward chin in a curb and black eyebrow lower to shade the keen eye. 
giuseppe s dark face between flash earring a twist rag of red and yellow silk round his throat turn from the reach yearn monkey to the pink and white biscuit spike on the bronze leafage. and upon them all fell the serious and workmanlike sun of an english summer forenoon. 
fils de saint louis montez au ciel. say lord lundie suddenly in a voice that make me think of black cap. i do not know what the monkey think because at that instant he leap off the organ and disappear. 
there be a clash of break glass behind the tree. 
the monkey s face distort with passion appear at an upper window of the house and a star hole in the stain glass window to the leave of the front door show the first step of his upward path. 
we ve get to catch him cry sir christopher. come along. 
they push at the door which be unlock. 
yes. but consider the ethic of the case say jimmy. isn t this burglary or something bubble. 
settle that when he s catch say sir christopher. we re responsible for the beast. 
a furious clang of bell break out of the empty house follow by muff gurgle and trumpet. 
what the deuce be that. i ask half aloud. 
the plumb of course say penfentenyou. what a pity. i believe he d have climb if lord lundie hadn t put him off. 
wait a moment chris say jimmy the interpreter. guiseppe say he may answer to the music of his infancy. giuseppe therefore will go in with the organ. orpheus with his lute you know. avante orpheus. there s no neapolitan for bathroom but i fancy your friend be there. 
i m not go into another man s house with a hurdy gurdy say lord lundie recoil a giuseppe unshipped the work mechanism of the organ. it develop a hang down leg. from it wheel slip a strap round his shoulder and give the handle a twist. 
don t be a cad bubble be jimmy s answer. you couldn t leave u now if you be on the woolsack. play orpheus. the cadi accompany. 
* * * * * * * * *. 
with a whoop a buzz and a crash the organ spring to life under the hand of giuseppe and the procession pass through the rain to imitate walnut front door. a moment late we saw the monkey ramp on the roof. 
he ll be all over the township in a minute if we don t head him say penfentenyou leap to his foot and crash into the garden. we head him with pebble till he retire through a window to the tuneful reminder that he have leave a lot of little thing behind him. a we pass the front door it swing open and show jimmy the artist sit at the bottom of a newly clean staircase. he waggle his hand at u and when we enter we saw that the man be stricken speechless. his eye grow red red like a ferret s and what little breath he have whistle shrilly. at first we think it be a fit and then we saw that it be mirth the inopportune mirth of the artistic temperament. 
the house palpitate to an infamous melody punctuate by the stump of the barrel organ s one leg a giuseppe above move from room to room after his rebel slave. now and again a floor shake a little under the combine rush of lord lundie and sir christopher tomling who give many and contradictory order. but when they could they curse jimmy with splendid thoroughness. 
have you anything to do with the house. pant jimmy at last. because we re use it just now. he gulp. and i m ah keep cave. 
all right say penfentenyou and shut the hall door. 
jimmy you unspeakable blackguard jimmy you cur. you coward. lord lundie s voice overbear the flood of melody. come up here. giussieppe s say something we don t understand. 
jimmy listen and interpret between hiccup. 
he say you d good play the organ bubble and let him do the stalk. the monkey know him. 
by jove he s quite right say sir christopher from the land. take it bubble at once. 
my god. say lord lundie in horror. 
the chase reverberate over our head from the attic to the first floor and back again. body and voice meet in collision and argument and once or twice the organ hit wall and door. then it break forth in a new manner. 
he s play it say jimmy. i know his acute justinian ear. be you fond of music. 
i think lord lundie play very well for a beginner i venture. 
ah. that s the train legal intellect. like master a brief. i haven t get it. he wipe his eye and shake. 
hi. say penfentenyou look through the stain glass window down the garden. what s that. 
* * * * * * * * *. 
a household removal van in charge of four men have halt at the gate. a husband and his wife householder beyond question quaver irresolutely up the path. he look tire. she be certainly cross. in all this haphazard world the last couple to understand a scientific experiment. 
i lay hand on jimmy the clamour above drown speech and with penfentenyou s aid prop him against the window that he should see. 
he saw nod fell a an umbrella can fall and kneel beat his forehead on the shut door. penfentenyou slide the bolt. 
the furniture men reinforce the two figure on the path and advance spread generously. 
hadn t we good warn them up stair. i suggest. 
no. i ll die first. say jimmy. i m pretty near it now. besides they call me name. 
i turn from the artist to the administrator. 
coeteris paribus i think we d good be go say penfentenyou dealer in crisis. 
ta take me with you say jimmy. i ve no reputation to lose but i d like to watch em from er outside the picture. 
there s always a modus viviendi penfentenyou murmur and tiptoe along the hall to a back door which he open quite silently. we pass into a tangle of gooseberry bush where at his statesmanlike example we crawl on all four and regain the hedge. 
here we lay up secure in our alibi. 
but your firm the woman be wail to the furniture removal men your firm promise me everything should be in yesterday. and it s to day. you should have be here yesterday. 
the last tenant ain t out yet lydy say one of them. 
lord lundie be rapidly improve in technique though organ grind unlike the law be more of a call than a trade and he hang occasionally on a dead centre. giuseppe i think be sing but i could not understand the drift of sir christopher s remark. they be spanish. 
the woman say something we do not catch. 
you might ave sub let it the man insist. or your gentleman ere might. 
but i didn t. send for the police at once. 
i wouldn t do that lydy. they re only fruit picker on a beano. they aren t particular where they sleep. 
d you mean they ve be sleep there. i only have it clean last week. get them out. 
oh if you say so we ll ave em out of it in two two. alf fetch me the spare swingle bar. 
don t. you ll knock the paint off the door. get them out. 
what the ell else be i try to do for you lydy. the man answer with pathos. but the woman wheel on her mate. 
edward. they re all drink here and they re all mad there. do something. she say. 
edward take one short step forward and sigh hullo. in the direction of the turbulent house. the woman walk up and down the very figure of domestic tragedy. the furniture men sway a little on their heel and. 
get him. the shout ring through all the window at once. it be follow by a blood hound like bay from sir christopher a maniacal prestissimo on the organ and loud cry for jimmy. but jimmy at my side roll his congest eyeball owl wise. 
i never know them he say. i m an orphan. 
* * * * * * * * *. 
the front door open and the three come forth to short live triumph. i have never before see a law lord dress a for tennis with a stump leg barrel organ strap to his shoulder. but it be a shy bird in this plumage. lord lundie strive to disembarrass himself of his accoutrement much a an ill train punch and judy dog try to escape backwards through his frilled collar. sir christopher cover with limewash cherish a bleed thumb and the almost crazy monkey tear at giuseppe s hair. 
the men on both side reel but the woman stand her grind. idiot. she say and once more idiot. 
i could have gladden a few convict of my acquaintance with a photograph of lord lundie at that instant. 
madam he begin wonderfully preserve the roll in his voice it be a monkey. 
sir christopher suck his thumb and nod. 
take it away and go she reply. go away. 
i would have go and gladly on this permission but these still strong men must ever be justify themselves. lord lundie turn to the husband who for the first time speak. 
i have rent this house. i be move in he say. 
we ought to have be in yesterday the woman interrupt. 
yes. we ought to have be in yesterday. have you sleep there overnight. say the man peevishly. 
no. i assure you we haven t say lord lundie. 
then go away. go quite away cry the woman. 
they go in single file down the path. they go silently restrapping the organ on it wheel and rechaining the monkey to the organ. 
damn it all. say penfentenyou. they do face the music and they do stick by each other in private life. 
tie of common funk i answer. giuseppe run to the gate and flee back to the possible world. lord lundie and sir christopher constrain by tradition pace slowly. 
then it come to pas that the woman who walk behind them lift up her eye and behold the tree which they have dress. 
stop. she call. and they stop. who do that. 
there be no answer. the eternal bad boy in every man hang it head before the eternal mother in every woman. 
who put these disgust thing there. she repeat. 
suddenly penfentenyou premier of his colony in all but name leave jimmy and me and appear at the gate. if he be not turn out of office that be how he will appear on the day of armageddon. 
well do you. he cry zealously and doff his hat to the woman. have you any child madam. he demand. 
yes two. they should have be here to day. the firm promise. 
then we re not a minute too soon. that monkey escape. it be a very dangerous beast. might have frighten your child into fit. all the organ grinder s fault. a most lucky thing these gentleman catch it when they do. i hope you aren t badly maul sir christopher. shake a i be. i want to get away and laugh. i could not but admire the scoundrel s consummate tact in lead his second high trump. an as would have introduce lord lundie and they would not have believe him. 
it take the trick. the couple smile and give respectful thank for their deliverance by such hand from such peril. 
not in the least say lord lundie. anybody any father would have do a much and pray don t apologize your mistake be quite natural. a furniture man snigger here and lord lundie roll an eye of doom on their rank. by the way if you have trouble with these person they seem to have take a much a be good for them please let me know. er good morning. 
they turn into the lane. 
heaven. say jimmy brush himself down. who s that real man with the real head. and we hurry after them for they be run unsteadily squeak like rabbit a they run. we overtake them in a little nut wood half a mile up the road where they have turn aside and be roll. so we roll with them and cease not till we have arrive at the extremity of exhaustion. 
you you saw it all then. say lord lundie rebuttoning his nineteen inch collar. 
i saw it be a vital question from the first respond penfentenyou and blow his nose. 
it be. by the way d you mind tell me your name. 
summa. penfentenyou s great idea ha go through a little chip at the edge but in fine and far reach shape. his opposite number work at it like a mule a bewilder mule beat from behind coax from in front and prop on either soft side by lord lundie of the compress mouth and the sear tongue. 
sir christopher tomling ha be ravish from the argentine where after all he be but prepare trade route for hostile people and now adorn the forefront of penfentenyou s advisory board. this be an unforeseen extra a be jimmy s gratis full length. it will be in this year s academy. of penfentenyou who ha return to his own place. 
now and again from afar off between the slam and bump of his shift scenery the glare of his manipulate limelight and the control roll of his thunder drum i catch his voice lift in encouragement and advice to his fellow countryman. he be quite sound on tie of sentiment and alone of colonial statesman venture to talk of the tie of common funk. 
herein i have my reward. 
the puzzler. 
the celt in all his variant from builth to ballyhoo his mental process be plain one know what he will do and can logically predicate his finish by his start. but the english ah the english. they be quite a race apart. 
their psychology be bovine their outlook crude and rare. they abandon vital matter to be tickle with a straw. but the straw that they be tickle with the chaff that they be feed with they convert into a weaver s beam to break their foeman s head with. 
for undemocratic reason and for motif not of state they arrive at their conclusion largely inarticulate. be void of self expression they confide their view to none. but sometimes in a smoke room one learn why thing be do. 
in telegraphic sentence half swallow at the end they hint a matter s inwardness and there the matter end. and while the celt be talk from valencia to kirkwall the english ah the english. don t say anything at all. 
little fox. 
a tale of the gihon hunt. 
a fox come out of his earth on the bank of the great river gihon which water ethiopia. he saw a white man rid through the dry dhurra stalk and that his destiny might be fulfil bark at him. 
the rider draw rein among the villager round his stirrup. 
what say he be that. 
that say the sheikh of the village be a fox o excellency our governor. 
it be not then a jackal. 
no jackal but abu hussein the father of cunning. 
also the white man speak half aloud i be mudir of this province. 
it be true they cry. ya saart el mudir. o excellency our governor. 
the great river gihon well use to the mood of king slide between his mile wide bank toward the sea while the governor praise god in a loud and search cry never before hear by the river. 
when he have lower his right forefinger from behind his right ear the villager talk to him of their crop barley dhurrah millet onion and the like. the governor stand in his stirrup. north he look up a strip of green cultivation a few hundred yard wide that lay like a carpet between the river and the tawny line of the desert. sixty mile that strip stretch before him and a many behind. at every half mile a groan water wheel lift the soft water from the river to the crop by way of a mud build aqueduct. a foot or so wide be the water channel. five foot or more high be the bank on which it run and it base be broad in proportion. abu hussein misname the father of cunning drink from the river below his earth and his shadow be long in the low sun. he could not understand the loud cry which the governor have cry. 
the sheikh of the village speak of the crop from which the ruler of all land draw revenue. but the governor s eye be fix between his horse s ear on the near water channel. 
very like a ditch in ireland he murmur and smile dream of a razor top bank in distant kildare. 
encourage by that smile the sheikh continue. when crop fail it be necessary to remit taxation. then it be a good thing o excellency our governor that you come and see the crop which have fail and discover that we have not lie. 
assuredly. the governor shorten his rein. the horse canter on rise at the embankment of the water channel change leg cleverly on top and hop down in a cloud of golden dust. 
abu hussein from his earth watch with interest. he have never before see such thing. 
assuredly the governor repeat and come back by the way he have go. it be always best to see for one s self. 
an ancient and still bullet speckle stern wheel steamer with a barge lash to her side come round the river bend. she whistle to tell the governor his dinner be ready and the horse see his fodder pile on the barge whinny back. 
moreover the sheikh add in the day of the oppression the emir and their creature dispossess many people of their land. all up and down the river our people be wait to return to their lawful field. 
judge have be appoint to settle that matter say the governor. they will presently come in steamer and hear the witness. 
wherefore. do the judge kill the emir. we would rather be judge by the men who execute god s judgment on the emir. we would rather abide by your decision o excellency our governor. 
the governor nod. it be a year since he have see the emir stretch close and still round the redden sheepskin where lay el mahdi the prophet of god. now there remain no trace of their dominion except the old steamer once part of a dervish flotilla which be his house and office. she sidle into the shore lower a plank and the governor follow his horse aboard. 
light burn on her till late dully reflect in the river that tug at her moor rope. the governor read not for the first time the administration report of one john jorrocks m. f. h. 
we shall need he say suddenly to his inspector about ten couple. i ll get em when i go home. you ll be whip baker. 
the inspector who be not yet twenty five signify his assent in the usual manner while abu hussein bark at the vast desert moon. 
ha. say the governor come out in his pyjama we ll be give you capivi in another three month my friend. 
* * * * *. 
it be four a a matter of fact ere a steamer with a melodious bargeful of hound anchor at that land. the inspector leap down among them and the homesick wanderer receive him a a brother. 
everybody feed em everything on board ship but they re real dainty hound at bottom the governor explain. that s royal you ve get hold of the pick of the bunch and the bitch that s get hold of you she s a little excite be may queen. merriman out of cottesmore maudlin you know. 
i know. grand old betch with the tan eyebrow the inspector coo. oh ben. i shall take an interest in life now. hark to em. o hark. 
abu hussein under the high bank go about his night s work. an eddy carry his scent to the barge and three village hear the crash of music that follow. even then abu hussein do not know good than to bark in reply. 
well what about my province. the governor ask. 
not so bad the inspector answer with royal s head between his knee. of course all the village want remission of tax but a far a i can see the whole country s stinkin with fox. our trouble will be choppin em in cover. i ve get a list of the only village entitle to any remission. what d you call this flat side blue mottle beast with the jowl. 
beagle boy. i have my doubt about him. do you think we can get two day a week. 
easy. and a many bye a you please. the sheikh of this village here tell me that his barley ha fail and he want a fifty per cent remission. 
we ll begin with him to morrow and look at his crop a we go. nothing like personal supervision say the governor. 
they begin at sunrise. the pack fly off the barge in every direction and after gambol dig like terrier at abu hussein s many earth. then they drink themselves pot belly on gihon water while the governor and the inspector chastise them with whip. scorpion be add. for may queen nose one and be remove to the barge lament. mystery. a puppy ala. meet a snake and the blue mottle beagle boy. never a dainty hound. eat that which he should have pass by. only royal of the belvoir tan head and the sad discern eye make any attempt to uphold the honour of england before the watch village. 
you can t expect everything say the governor after breakfast. 
we get it though everything except fox. have you see may queen s nose. say the inspector. 
and mystery s dead. we ll keep em couple next time till we get well in among the crop. i say what a babble body snatcher that beagle boy be. ought to be drown. 
they bury people so damn casual hereabouts. give him another chance the inspector plead not know that he should live to repent most bitterly. 
talkin of chance say the governor this sheikh lie about his barley bein a failure. if it s high enough to hide a hound at this time of year it s all right. and he want a fifty per cent remission you say. 
you didn t go on past the melon patch where i try to turn wanderer. it s all burn up from there on to the desert. his other water wheel ha break down too the inspector reply. 
very good. we ll split the difference and allow him twenty five per cent off. where ll we meet to morrow. 
there s some trouble among the village down the river about their land title. it s good goin grind there too the inspector say. 
the next meet then be some twenty mile down the river and the pack be not enlarge till they be fairly among the field. abu hussein be there in force four of him. four delirious hunt of four minute each four hound per fox end in four earth just above the river. all the village look on. 
we forget about the earth. the bank be riddle with em. this ll defeat u say the inspector. 
wait a moment. the governor draw forth a sneeze hound. i ve just remember i m governor of these part. 
then turn out a black battalion to stop for u. we ll need em old man. 
the governor straighten his back. give ear o people. he cry. i make a new law. 
the villager close in. he call. 
henceforward i will give one dollar to the man on whose land abu hussein be find. and another dollar he hold up the coin to the man on whose land these dog shall kill him. but to the man on whose land abu hussein shall run into a hole such a be this hole i will give not dollar but a most unmeasurable beat. be it understand. 
our excellency a man step forth on my land abu hussein be find this morning. be it not so brother. 
none deny. the governor toss him over four dollar without a word. 
on my land they all go into their hole cry another. therefore i must be beat. 
not so. the land be mine and mine be the beating. 
this second speaker thrust forward his shoulder already bar and the villager shout. 
hullo. two men anxious to be lick. there must be some swindle about the land say the governor. then in the local vernacular. what be your right to the beat. 
a a river reach change beneath a slant of the sun that which have be a scatter mob change to a court of most ancient justice. the hound tear and sob at abu hussein s hearthstone all unnoticed among the leg of the witness and gihon also accustom to law purr approval. 
you will not wait till the judge come up the river to settle the dispute. say the governor at last. 
no. shout all the village save the man who have first ask to be beat. we will abide by our excellency s decision. let our excellency turn out the creature of the emir who steal our land in the day of the oppression. 
and thou sayest. the governor turn to the man who have first ask to be beat. 
i say will wait till the wise judge come down in the steamer. then i will bring my many witness he reply. 
he be rich. he will bring many witness the village sheikh mutter. 
no need. thy own mouth condemn thee. the governor cry. no man lawfully entitle to his land would wait one hour before enter upon it. stand aside. the man fell back and the village jeer him. 
the second claimant stoop quickly beneath the lift hunt crop. the village rejoice. 
oh such an one. son of such an one say the governor prompt by the sheikh learn from the day when i send the order to block up all the hole where abu hussein may hide on thy land. 
the light flick end. the man stand up triumphant. by that accolade have the supreme government acknowledge his title before all men. 
while the village praise the perspicacity of the governor a naked pock mark child stride forward to the earth and stand on one leg unconcerned a a young stork. 
hal he say hand behind his back. this should be block up with bundle of dhurra stalk or good bundle of thorn. 
good thorn say the governor. thick end innermost. 
the child nod gravely and squat on the sand. 
an evil day for thee abu hussein he shrill into the mouth of the earth. a day of obstacle to thy flagitious return in the morning. 
who be it. the governor ask the sheikh. it think. 
farag the fatherless. his people be slay in the day of the oppression. the man to whom our excellency ha award the land be a it be his maternal uncle. 
will it come with me and fee the big dog. say the governor. 
the other peer child draw back. run. they cry. our excellency will fee farag to the big dog. 
i will come say farag. and i will never go. he throw his arm round royal s neck and the wise beast lick his face. 
binjamin by jove. the inspector cry. 
no. say the governor. i believe he ha the making of a jam pigg. 
farag wave his hand to his uncle and lead royal on to the barge. the rest of the pack follow. 
* * * * *. 
gihon that have see many sport learn to know the hunt barge well. he meet her round his bend on grey december dawn to music wild and lamentable a the almost forget throb of dervish drum when high above royal s tenor bell sharp even than lie beagle boy s falsetto break farag chant deathless war against abu hussein and all his seed. at sunrise the river would shoulder her carefully into her place and listen to the rush and scutter of the pack flee up the gang plank and the tramp of the governor s arab behind them. they would pas over the brow into the dewless crop where gihon low and shrink could only guess what they be about when abu hussein fly down the bank to scratch at a stop earth and fly back into the barley again. a farag have foretell it be evil day for abu hussein ere he learn to take the necessary step and to get away crisply. sometimes gihon saw the whole procession of the hunt silhouette against the morning blue bear him company for many merry mile. at every half mile the horse and the donkey jump the water channel up on change your leg and off again like figure in a zoetrope till they grow small along the line of waterwheel. then gibon wait their rustle return through the crop and take them to rest on his bosom at ten o clock. while the horse eat and farag sleep with his head on royal s flank the governor and his inspector work for the good of the hunt and his province. 
after a little time there be no need to beat any man for neglect his earth. the steamer s destination be telegraph from waterwheel to waterwheel and the villager stop out and put to accord. if an earth be overlook it mean some dispute a to the ownership of the land and then and there the hunt check and settle it in this wise. the governor and the inspector side by side but the latter half a horse s length to the rear. both bare shoulder claimant well in front. the villager half moon behind them and farag with the pack who quite understand the performance sit down on the leave. twenty minute be enough to settle the most complicate case for a the governor say to a judge on the steamer one get at the truth in a hunt field a heap quick than in your lawcourt. 
but when the evidence be conflict. the judge suggest. 
watch the field. they ll throw tongue fast enough if you re run a wrong scent. you ve never have an appeal from one of my decision yet. 
the sheikh on horseback the less folk on clever donkey the child so despise by farag soon understand that village which repair their waterwheel and channel stand high in the governor s favour. he buy their barley for his horse. 
channel he say be necessary that we may all jump them. they be necessary moreover for the crop. let there be many wheel and sound channel and much good barley. 
without money reply an age sheikh there be no waterwheel. 
i will lend the money say the governor. 
at what interest o our excellency. 
take you two of may queen s puppy to bring up in your village in such a manner that they do not eat filth nor lose their hair nor catch fever from lie in the sun but become wise hound. 
like ray yal not like bigglebai. already it be an insult along the river to compare a man to the shifty anthropophagous blue mottle harrier. 
certainly like ray yal not in the least like bigglebai. that shall be the interest on the loan. let the puppy thrive and the waterwheel be build and i shall be content say the governor. 
the wheel shall be build but o our excellency if by god s favour the pup grow to be well smelter not filth eater not unaccustomed to their name not lawless who will do them and me justice at the time of judge the young dog. 
hound man hound. ha wand o sheikh we call them in their manhood. 
the ha wand when they be judge at the sha ho. i have unfriends down the river to whom our excellency ha also entrust ha wand to bring up. 
puppy man. pah peaz we call them o sheikh in their childhood. 
pah peat. my enemy may judge my pah peaz unjustly at the sha ho. this must be think of. 
i see the obstacle. hear now. if the new waterwheel be build in a month without oppression thou o sheikh shalt be name one of the judge to judge the pah peaz at the sha ho. be it understand. 
understand. we will build the wheel. i and my seed be responsible for the repayment of the loan. where be my pah peaz. if they eat fowl must they on any account eat the feather. 
on no account must they eat the feather. farag in the barge will tell thee how they be to live. 
there be no instance of any default on the governor s personal and unauthorized loan for which they call him the father of waterwheel. but the first puppyshow at the capital need enormous tact and the presence of a black battalion ostentatiously drill in the barrack square to prevent trouble after the prize give. 
but who can chronicle the glory of the gihon hunt or their shame. who remember the kill in the market place when the governor bid the assemble sheikh and warrior observe how the hound would instantly devour the body of abu hussein. but how when he have scientifically break it up the weary pack turn from it in loathe and farag weep because he say the world s face have be blacken. what men who have not yet ride beyond the sound of any horn recall the midnight run which end beagleboy lead among tomb. the hasty whip off and the oath take abo e bone to forget the worry. the desert run when abu hussein forsake the cultivation and make a six mile point to earth in a desolate khor when strange arm rider on camel swoop out of a ravine and instead of give battle offer to take the tire hound home on their beast. which they do and vanish. 
above all who remember the death of royal when a certain sheikh weep above the body of the stainless hound a it might have be his son s and that day the hunt ride no more. the badly keep log book say little of this but at the end of their second season. forty nine brace. appear the dark entry. new blood badly want. they be begin to listen to beagle boy. 
* * * * *. 
the inspector attend to the matter when his leave fell due. 
remember say the governor you must get u the best blood in england real dainty hound expense no object but don t trust your own judgment. present my letter of introduction and take what they give you. 
the inspector present his letter in a society where they make much of horse more of hound and be tolerably civil to men who can ride. they pass him from house to house mount him accord to his merit and feed him after five year of goat chop and worcester sauce perhaps a think too richly. 
the seat or castle where he make his great coup doe not much matter. four master of foxhound be at table and in a mellow hour the inspector tell them story of the gihon hunt. he end. ben say i wasn t to trust my own judgment about hound but i think there ought to be a special tariff for empire maker. 
a soon a his host could speak they reassure him on this point. 
and now tell u about your first puppy show all over again say one. 
and about the earth stoppin. be that all ben s own invention. say another. 
wait a moment say a large clean shave man not an m. f. h. at the end of the table. be your villager habitually beat by your governor when they fail to stop fox hole. 
the tone and the phrase be enough even if a the inspector confess afterwards the big blue double chin man have not look so like beagle boy. he take him on for the honour of ethiopia. 
we only hunt twice a week sometimes three time. i ve never know a man chastise more than four time a week unless there s a bye. 
the large loose lipped man fling his napkin down come round the table cast himself into the chair next the inspector and lean forward earnestly so that he breathe in the inspector s face. 
chastise with what. he say. 
with the kourbash on the foot. a kourbash be a strip of old hippo hide with a sort of keel on it like the cut edge of a boar s tusk. but we use the round side for a first offender. 
and do any consequence follow this sort of thing. for the victim i mean not for you. 
ve ry rarely. let me be fair. i ve never see a man die under the lash but gangrene may set up if the kourbash ha be pickle. 
pickle in what. all the table be still and interest. 
in copperas of course. didn t you know that say the inspector. 
thank god i didn t. the large man sputter visibly. 
the inspector wipe his face and grow bold. 
you mustn t think we re careless about our earthstoppers. we ve a hunt fund for hot tar. tar s a splendid dress if the toe nail aren t beat off. but huntin a large a country a we do we mayn t be back at that village for a month and if the dressing ain t renew and gangrene set in often a not you find your man peg about on his stump. we ve a well know local name for em down the river. we call em the mudir s crane. you see i persuade the governor only to bastinado on one foot. 
on one foot. the mudir s crane. the large man turn purple to the top of his bald head. would you mind give me the local word for mudir s crane. 
from a too well stock memory the inspector draw one short adhesive word which surprise by itself even unblushing ethiopia. he spell it out saw the large man write it down on his cuff and withdraw. then the inspector translate a few of it signification and implication to the four master of foxhound. he leave three day late with eight couple of the best hound in england a free and a friendly and an ample gift from four pack to the gihon hunt. he have honestly mean to undeceive the large blue mottle man but somehow forget about it. 
the new draft mark a new chapter in the hunt s history. from an isolate phenomenon in a barge it become a permanent institution with brick build kennel ashore and an influence social political and administrative co terminous with the boundary of the province. ben the governor depart to england where he keep a pack of real dainty hound but never cease to long for the old lawless lot. his successor be ex officio master of the gihon hunt a all inspector be whip. for one reason. farag the kennel huntsman in khaki and puttee would obey nothing under the rank of an excellency and the hound would obey no one but farag. for another the best way of estimate crop return and revenue be by rid straight to hound. for a third though judge down the river issue sign and seal land title to all lawful owner yet public opinion along the river never hold any such title valid till it have be confirm accord to precedent by the governor s hunt crop in the hunt field above the wilfully neglect earth. true the ceremony have be cut down to three mere tap on the shoulder but governor who try to evade that much find themselves and their office compass about with a great cloud of witness who take up their time with lawsuit and bad still neglect the puppy. the old sheikh indeed stand out for the unmeasurable beating of the old day the sharp the punishment they argue the sure the title. but here the hand of modern progress be against them and they content themselves with tell tale of ben the first governor whom they call the father of waterwheel and of that heroic age when men horse and hound be worth follow. 
this same modern progress which bring dog biscuit and brass water tap to the kennel be at work all over the world. force activity and movement spring into be agitate themselves coalesce and in one political avalanche overwhelm a bewilder and not in the least intend it england. the echo of the new era be bear into the province on the wing of inexplicable cable. the gihon hunt read speech and sentiment and policy which amaze them and they thank god prematurely that their province be too far off too hot and too hard work to be reach by those speaker or their policy. but they with others under estimate the scope and purpose of the new era. 
one by one the province of the empire be haul up and bait hit and hold lash under the belly and force back on their haunch for the amusement of their new master in the parish of westminster. one by one they fell away sore and angry to compare stripe with each other at the end of the uneasy earth. even so the gihon hunt like abu hussein in the old day do not understand. then it reach them through the press that they habitually flog to death good revenue pay cultivator who neglect to stop earth. but that the few the very few who do not die under hippohide whip soak in copperas walk about on their gangrenous ankle bone and be know in derision a the mudir s crane. the charge be vouch for in the house of common by a mr. lethabie groombride who have form a committee and be disseminate literature. the province groan. the inspector now an inspector of inspector whistle. he have forget the gentleman who sputter in people s face. 
he shouldn t have look so like beagle boy. be his sole defence when he meet the governor at breakfast on the steamer after a meet. 
you shouldn t have joke with an animal of that class say peter the governor. look what farag ha bring me. 
it be a pamphlet sign on behalf of a committee by a lady secretary but compose by some person who thoroughly understand the language of the province. after tell the tale of the beating it recommend all the beat to institute criminal proceeding against their governor and a soon a might be to rise against english oppression and tyranny. such document be new in ethiopia in those day. 
the inspector read the last half page. but but he stammer this be impossible. white men don t write this sort of stuff. 
don t they just. say the governor. they get make cabinet minister for do it too. i go home last year. i know. 
it ll blow over say the inspector weakly. 
not it. groombride be come down here to investigate the matter in a few day. 
for himself. 
the imperial government s behind him. perhaps you d like to look t my order. the governor lay down an uncoded cable. the whiplash to it run. you will afford mr. groombride every facility for his inquiry and will be hold responsible that no obstacle be put in his way to the full possible examination of any witness which he may consider necessary. he will be accompany by his own interpreter who must not be tamper with. 
that s to me governor of the province. say peter the governor. 
it seem about enough the inspector answer. 
farag kennel huntsman enter the saloon a be his privilege. 
my uncle who be beat by the father of waterwheel would approach o excellency he say and there be others on the bank. 
admit say the governor. 
there tramp aboard sheikh and villager to the number of seventeen. in each man s hand be a copy of the pamphlet. in each man s eye terror and uneasiness of the sort that governor spend and be spend to clear away. farag s uncle now sheikh of the village speak. it be write in this book excellency that the beating whereby we hold our land be all valueless. it be write that every man who receive such a beat from the father of waterwheel who slow the emir should instantly begin a lawsuit because the title to his land be not valid. 
it be so write. we do not wish lawsuit. we wish to hold the land a it be give to u after the day of the oppression they cry. 
the governor glance at the inspector. this be serious. to cast doubt on the ownership of land mean in ethiopia the let in of water and the get out of troop. 
your title be good say the governor. the inspector confirm with a nod. 
then what be the mean of these writing which come from down the river where the judge be. farag s uncle wave his copy. by whose order be we order to slay you o excellency our governor. 
it be not write that you be to slay me. 
not in those very word but if we leave an earth unstopped it be the same a though we wish to save abu hussein from the hound. these writing say. abolish your ruler. how can we abolish except we kill. we hear rumour of one who come from down the river soon to lead u to kill. 
fool. say the governor. your title be good. this be madness. 
it be so write they answer like a pack. 
listen say the inspector smoothly. i know who cause the writing to be write and send. he be a man of a blue mottle jowl in aspect like bigglebai who eat unclean matter. he will come up the river and will give tongue about the beating. 
will he impeach our land title. an evil day for him. 
go slow baker the governor whisper. they ll kill him if they get scar about their land. 
i tell a parable. the inspector light a cigarette. declare which of you take to walk the child of milkmaid. 
melik meid first or second. say farag quickly. 
the second the one which be lam by the thorn. 
no no. melik meid the second strain her shoulder leap my water channel a sheikh cry. melik meid the first be lam by the thorn on the day when our excellency fell thrice. 
true true. the second melik meid s mate be malvolio the pied hound say the inspector. 
i have two of the second melik meid s pup say farag s uncle. they die of the madness in their ninth month. 
and how do they do before they die. say the inspector. 
they run about in the sun and slaver at the mouth till they die. 
wherefore. 
god know. he send the madness. it be no fault of mine. 
thy own mouth hath answer thee. the inspector laugh. it be with men a it be with dog. god afflict some with a madness. it be no fault of ours if such men run about in the sun and froth at the mouth. the man who be come will emit spray from his mouth in speak and will always edge and push in towards his hearer. when ye see and hear him ye will understand that he be afflict of god. be mad. he be in god s hand. 
but our title be our title to our land good. the crowd repeat. 
your title be in my hand they be good say the governor. 
and he who write the writing be an afflict of god. say farag s uncle. 
the inspector hath say it cry the governor. ye will see when the man come. o sheikh and men have we ride together and walk puppy together and buy and sell barley for the horse that after these year we should run riot on the scent of a madman an afflict of god. 
but the hunt pay u to kill mad jackal say farag s uncle. and he who question my title to my land. 
aahh. ware riot. the governor s hunt crop crack like a three pounder. by allah he thunder if the afflict of god come to any harm at your hand i myself will shoot every hound and every puppy and the hunt shall ride no more. on your head be it. go in peace and tell the others. 
the hunt shall ride no more say farag s uncle. then how can the land be govern. no no o excellency our governor we will not harm a hair on the head of the afflict of god. he shall be to u a be abu hussein s wife in the breed season. 
when they be go the governor mop his forehead. 
we must put a few soldier in every village this groombride visit baker. tell em to keep out of sight and have an eye on the villager. he s try em rather high. 
o excellency say the smooth voice of farag lay the field and country life square on the table be the afflict of god who resemble bigglebai one with the man whom the inspector meet in the great house in england and to whom he tell the tale of the mudir s crane. 
the same man farag say the inspector. 
i have often hear the inspector tell the tale to our excellency at feed time in the kennel. but since i be in the government service i have never tell it to my people. may i loose that tale among the village. 
* * * * *. 
the governor nod. no harm say he. 
the detail of mr. groombride s arrival with his interpreter whom he propose should eat with him at the governor s table his allocution to the governor on the new movement and the sin of imperialism i purposely omit. at three in the afternoon mr. groombride say. i will go out now and address your victim in this village. 
win t you find it rather hot. say the governor. they generally take a nap till sunset at this time of year. 
mr. groombride s large loose lip set. that he reply pointedly would be enough to decide me. i fear you have not quite master your instruction. may i ask you to send for my interpreter. i hope he ha not be tamper with by your subordinate. 
he be a yellowish boy call abdul who have well eat and drink with farag. the inspector by the way be not present at the meal. 
at whatever risk i shall go unattended say mr. groombride. your presence would cow them from give evidence. abdul my good friend would you very kindly open the umbrella. 
he pass up the gang plank to the village and with no more prelude than a salvation army picket in a portsmouth slum cry. oh my brother. 
he do not guess how his path have be prepare. the village be widely awake. farag in loose flow garment quite unlike a kennel huntsman s khaki and puttee lean against the wall of his uncle s house. come and see the afflict of god he cry musically whose face indeed resemble that of bigglebai. 
the village come and decide that on the whole farag be right. 
i can t quite catch what they be say say mr. groombride. 
they say they very much please to see you sar adbul interpret. 
then i do think they might have send a deputation to the steamer. but i suppose they be frighten of the official. tell them not to be frighten abdul. 
he say you be not to be frighten abdul explain. a child here sputter with laughter. refrain from mirth farag cry. the afflict of god be the guest of the excellency our governor. we be responsible for every hair of his head. 
he ha none a voice speak. he ha the white and the shin mange. 
now tell them what i have come for abdul and please keep the umbrella well up. i think i shall reserve myself for my little vernacular speech at the end. 
approach. look. listen. abdul chant. the afflict of god will now make sport. presently he will speak in your tongue and will consume you with mirth. i have be his servant for three week. i will tell you about his undergarment and his perfume for his head. 
he tell them at length. 
and didst thou take any of his perfume bottle. say farag at the end. 
i be his servant. i take two abdul reply. 
ask him say farag s uncle what he know about our land title. ye young men be all alike. he wave a pamphlet. mr. groombride smile to see how the seed sow in london have bear fruit by gihon. lo. all the senior hold copy of the pamphlet. 
he know le than a buffalo. he tell me on the steamer that he be drive out of his own land by demah kerazi which be a devil inhabit crowd and assembly say abdul. 
allah between u and evil. a woman cackle from the darkness of a hut. come in child he may have the evil eye. 
no my aunt say farag. no afflict of god ha an evil eye. wait till ye hear his mirth provoke speech which he will deliver. i have hear it twice from abdul. 
they seem very quick to grasp the point. how far have you get abdul. 
all about the beating sar. they be highly interest. 
don t forget about the local self government and please hold the umbrella over me. it be hopeless to destroy unless one first build up. 
he may not have the evil eye farag s uncle grunt but his devil lead him too certainly to question my land title. ask him whether he still doubt my land title. 
or mine or mine. cry the elder. 
what odds. he be an afflict of god farag call. remember the tale i tell you. 
yes but he be an englishman and doubtless of influence or our excellency would not entertain him. bid the down country jackass ask him. 
sar say abdul these people much fear they may be turn out of their land in consequence of your remark. therefore they ask you to make promise no bad consequence follow your visit. 
mr. groombride hold his breath and turn purple. then he stamp his foot. 
tell them he cry that if a hair of any one of their head be touch by any official on any account whatever all england shall ring with it. good god. what callous oppression. the dark place of the earth be full of cruelty. he wipe his face and throw out his arm cry. tell them oh. tell the poor serf not to be afraid of me. tell them i come to redress their wrong not heaven know to add to their burden. 
the long draw gurgle of the practise public speaker please them much. 
that be how the new water tap run out in the kennel say farag. the excellency our governor entertain him that he may make sport. make him say the mirth move speech. 
what do he say about my land title. farag s uncle be not to be turn. 
he say farag interpret that he desire nothing good than that you should live on your land in peace. he talk a though he believe himself to be governor. 
well. we here be all witness to what he ha say. now go forward with the sport. farag s uncle smooth his garment. how diversely hath allah make his creature. on one he bestow strength to slay emir. another he cause to go mad and wander in the sun like the afflict son of melik meid. 
yes and to emit spray from the mouth a the inspector tell u. all will happen a the inspector foretell say farag. i have never yet see the inspector throw out during any run. 
i think abdul pluck at mr. groombride s sleeve i think perhaps it be good now sar if you give your fine little native speech. they not understand english but much please at your condescension. 
condescension. mr. groombride spin round. if they only know how i felt towards them in my heart. if i could express a tithe of my feeling. i must stay here and learn the language. hold up the umbrella abdull i think my little speech will show them i know something of their vie intime. 
it be a short simple. carefully learn address and the accent supervise by abdul on the steamer allow the hearer to guess it mean which be a request to see one of the mudir s crane. since the desire of the speaker s life the object to which he would consecrate his day be to improve the condition of the mudir s crane. but first he must behold them with his own eye. would then his brother whom he love show him a mudir s crane whom he desire to love. 
once twice and again in his peroration he repeat his demand use always that they might see he be acquaint with their local argot use always i say the word which the inspector have give him in england long ago the short adhesive word which by itself surprise even unblushing ethiopia. 
there be limit to the sublime politeness of an ancient people. a bulky blue chin man in white clothe his name red letter across his low shirtfront splutter from under a green line umbrella almost tearful appeal to be introduce to the unintroducible. name loudly the unnameable. dance a it seem in perverse joy at mere mention of the unmentionable find those limit. there be a moment s hush and then such mirth a gihon through his century have never hear a roar like to the roar of his own cataract in flood. child cast themselves on the grind and roll back and forth cheer and whoop. strong men their face hide in their clothe sway in silence till the agony become insupportable and they throw up their head and bay at the sun. woman mother and virgin shrill shriek upon mount shriek and slap their thigh a it might have be the roll of musketry. when they try to draw breath some half strangle voice would quack out the word and the riot begin afresh. last to fall be the city train abdul. he hold on to the edge of apoplexy then collapse throw the umbrella from him. 
mr. groombride should not be judge too harshly. exercise and strong emotion under a hot sun the shock of public ingratitude for the moment rue his spirit. he furl the umbrella and with t beat the prostrate abdul cry that he have be betray. in which posture the inspector on horseback follow by the governor suddenly find him. 
* * * * *. 
that s all very well say the inspector when he have take abdul s dramatically die deposition on the steamer but you can t hammer a native merely because he laugh at you. i see nothing for it but the law to take it course. 
you might reduce the charge to er tamper with an interpreter say the governor. mr. groombride be too far go to be comfort. 
it s the publicity that i fear he wail. be there no possible mean of hush up the affair. you don t know what a question a single question in the house mean to a man of my position the ruin of my political career i assure you. 
i shouldn t have imagine it say the governor thoughtfully. 
and though perhaps i ought not to say it i be not without honour in my own country or influence. a word in season a you know your excellency. it might carry an official far. 
the governor shudder. 
yes that have to come too he say to himself. well look here. if i tell this man of yours to withdraw the charge against you you can go to gehenna for aught i care. the only condition i make be that if you write i suppose that s part of your business about your travel you don t praise me. 
so far mr. groombride ha loyally adhere to this understand. 
gallio s song. 
all day long to the judgment seat the craze provincial draw all day long at their ruler s foot howl for the blood of the jew. insurrection with one accord band itself and wake. and paul be about to open his mouth when achaia s deputy speak. 
whether the god descend from above or the man ascend upon high whether this maker of tent be jove or a young deity i will be no judge between your god and your godless bickering lictor drive them hence with rod i care for none of these thing. 
be it a question of lawful due or a labourer s hire deny reason would i should bear with you and order it well to be try but this be a question of word and name and i know the strife it bring i will not pas upon any your claim. i care for none of these thing. 
one thing only i see most clear a i pray you also see. claudius caesar hath set me here rome s deputy to be. it be her peace that ye go to break not mine nor any king s but touch your clamour of conscience sake i care for none of these thing. 
the house surgeon. 
on an even after easter day i sit at a table in a homeward bind steamer s smoke room where half a dozen of u tell ghost story. a our party break up a man play patience in the next alcove say to me. i didn t quite catch the end of that last story about the curse on the family s first bear. 
it turn out to be drain i explain. a soon a new one be put into the house the curse be lift i believe. i never know the people myself. 
ah. i ve have my drain up twice. i m on gravel too. 
you don t mean to say you ve a ghost in your house. why didn t you join our party. 
any more order gentleman before the bar close. the steward interrupt. 
sit down again and have one with me say the patience player. no it isn t a ghost. our trouble be more depression than anything else. 
how interest. then it s nothing any one can see. 
it s it s nothing bad than a little depression. and the odd part be that there hasn t be a death in the house since it be build in. the lawyer say so. that decide me my good lady rather and he make me pay an extra thousand for it. 
how curious. unusual too. i say. 
yes. ain t it. it be build for three sister moultrie be the name three old maid. they all live together. the eldest own it. i buy it from her lawyer a few year ago and if i ve spend a pound on the place first and last i must have spend five thousand. electric light new servant wing garden all that sort of thing. a man and his family ought to be happy after so much expense ain t it. he look at me through the bottom of his glass. 
doe it affect your family much. 
my good lady she s a greek by the way and myself be middle age. we can bear up against depression. but it s hard on my little girl. i say little. but she s twenty. we send her visit to escape it. she almost live at hotel and hydros last year but that isn t pleasant for her. she use to be a canary a perfect canary always sing. you ought to hear her. she doesn t sing now. that sort of thing s unwholesome for the young ain t it. 
can t you get rid of the place. i suggest. 
not except at a sacrifice and we be fond of it. just suit u three. we d love it if we be allow. 
what do you mean by not be allow. 
i mean because of the depression. it spoil everything. 
what s it like exactly. 
i couldn t very well explain. it must be see to be appreciate a the auctioneer say. now i be much impress by the story you be tell just now. 
it wasn t true i say. 
my tale be true. if you would do me the pleasure to come down and spend a night at my little place you d learn more than you would if i talk till morning. very likely twouldn t touch your good self at all. you might be immune ain t it. on the other hand if this influenza influence doe happen to affect you why i think it will be an experience. 
while he talk he give me his card and i read his name be l. maxwell m leod esq. of holmescroft. a city address be tuck away in a corner. 
my business he add use to be fur. if you be interest in fur i ve give thirty year of my life to em. 
you re very kind i murmur. 
far from it i assure you. i can meet you next saturday afternoon anywhere in london you choose to name and i ll be only too happy to motor you down. it ought to be a delightful run at this time of year the rhododendron will be out. i mean it. you don t know how truly i mean it. very probably it win t affect you at all. and i think i may say i have the fine collection of narwhal tusk in the world. all the best skin and horn have to go through london and l. maxwell m leod he know where they come from and where they go to. that s his business. 
for the rest of the voyage up channel mr. m leod talk to me of the assemble preparation and sale of the rare fur. and tell me thing about the manufacture of fur line coat which quite shock me. somehow or other when we land on wednesday i find myself pledge to spend that week end with him at holmescroft. 
on saturday he meet me with a well groom motor and run me out in an hour and a half to an exclusive residential district of dustless road and elegantly design country villa each stand in from three to five acre of perfectly appoint land. he tell me land be sell at eight hundred pound the acre and the new golf link whose queen anne pavilion we pass have cost nearly twenty four thousand pound to create. 
holmescroft be a large two storied low creeper cover residence. a verandah at the south side give on to a garden and two tennis court separate by a tasteful iron fence from a most park like meadow of five or six acre where two jersey cow graze. tea be ready in the shade of a promise copper beech and i could see group on the lawn of young men and maiden appropriately clothe play lawn tennis in the sunshine. 
a pretty scene ain t it. say mr. m leod. my good lady s sit under the tree and that s my little girl in pink on the far court. but i ll take you to your room and you can see em all late. 
he lead me through a wide parquet floor hall furnish in pale lemon with huge cloisonnee vas an ebonize and gold grand piano and bank of pot flower in benares brass bowl up a pale oak staircase to a spacious land where there be a green velvet settee trim with silver. the blind be down and the light lay in parallel line on the floor. 
he show me my room say cheerfully. you may be a little tire. one often be without know it after a run through traffic. don t come down till you feel quite restore. we shall all be in the garden. 
my room be rather warm and smelt of perfume soap. i throw up the window at once but it open so close to the floor and work so clumsily that i come within an ace of pitch out where i should certainly have ruin a rather lop side laburnum below. a i set about wash off the journey s dust i begin to feel a little tire. but i reflect i have not come down here in this weather and among these new surround to be depress. so i begin to whistle. 
and it be just then that i be aware of a little grey shadow a it might have be a snowflake see against the light float at an immense distance in the background of my brain. it annoy me and i shake my head to get rid of it. then my brain telegraph that it be the forerunner of a swift stride gloom which there be yet time to escape if i would force my thought away from it a a man leap for life force his body forward and away from the fall of a wall. but the gloom overtake me before i could take in the mean of the message. i move toward the bed every nerve already ache with the foreknowledge of the pain that be to be deal it and sit down while my amaze and angry soul drop gulf by gulf into that horror of great darkness which be speak of in the bible and which a auctioneer say must be experience to be appreciate. 
despair upon despair misery upon misery fear after fear each cause their distinct and separate woe pack in upon me for an unrecorded length of time until at last they blur together and i hear a click in my brain like the click in the ear when one descend in a dive bell and i know that the pressure be equalise within and without and that for the moment the bad be at an end. but i know also that at any moment the darkness might come down anew. and while i dwell on this speculation precisely a a man torment a rag tooth with his tongue it ebb away into the little grey shadow on the brain of it first come and once more i hear my brain which know what would recur telegraph to every quarter fox help release or diversion. 
the door open and m leod reappear. i thank him politely say i be charm with my room anxious to meet mr. m leod much refresh with my wash and so on and so forth. beyond a little stickiness at the corner of my mouth it seem to me that i be manage my word admirably. the while that i myself cower at the bottom of unclimbable pit. m leod lay his hand on my shoulder and say you ve get it now already ain t it. 
yes i answer. it s make me sick. 
it will pas off when you come outside. i give you my word it will then pas off. come. 
i shamble out behind him and wipe my forehead in the hall. 
you musn t mind he say. i expect the run tire you. my good lady be sit there under the copper beech. 
she be a fat woman in an apricot colour gown with a heavily powder face against which her black long lash eye show like currant in dough. i be introduce to many fine lady and gentleman of those part. magnificently appoint landau and cover motor sweep in and out of the drive and the air be gay with the merry outcry of the tennis player. 
a twilight draw on they all go away and i be leave alone with mr. and mr. m leod while tall manservant and maidservant take away the tennis and tea thing. miss m leod have walk a little down the drive with a light haired young man who apparently know everything about every south american railway stock. he have tell me at tea that these be the day of financial specialisation. 
i think it go off beautifully my dear say mr. m leod to his wife. and to me. you feel all right now ain t it. of course you do. 
mr. m leod surge across the gravel. her husband skip nimbly before her into the south verandah turn a switch and all holmescroft be flood with light. 
you can do that from your room also he say a they go in. there be something in money ain t it. 
miss m leod come up behind me in the dusk. we have not yet be introduce she say but i suppose you be stay the night. 
your father be kind enough to ask me i reply. 
she nod. yes i know. and you know too don t you. i saw your face when you come to shake hand with mamma. you felt the depression very soon. it be simply frightful in that bedroom sometimes. what do you think it be bewitchment. in greece where i be a little girl it might have be. but not in england do you think. or do you. 
cheer up thea. it will all come right he insist. 
no papa. she shake her dark head. nothing be right while it come. 
it be nothing that we ourselves have ever do in our life that i will swear to you say mr. m leod suddenly. and we have change our servant several time. so we know it be not them. 
never mind. let u enjoy ourselves while we can say mr. m leod open the champagne. 
but we do not enjoy ourselves. the talk fail. there be long silence. 
i beg your pardon i say for i think some one at my elbow be about to speak. 
ah. that be the other thing. say miss m leod. her mother groan. 
we be silent again and in a few second it must have be a live grief beyond word not ghostly dread or horror but ache helpless grief overwhelm u each i felt accord to his or her nature and hold steady like the beam of a burn glass. behind that pain i be conscious there be a desire on somebody s part to explain something on which some tremendously important issue hang. 
meantime i roll bread pill and remember my sin. m leod consider his own reflection in a spoon. his wife seem to be pray and the girl fidgetted desperately with hand and foot till the darkness pass on a though the malignant ray of a burn glass have be shift from u. 
there say miss m leod half rise. now you see what make a happy home. oh sell it sell it father mine and let u go away. 
but i ve spend thousand on it. you shall go to harrogate next week thea dear. 
i m only just back from hotel. i be so tire of pack. 
cheer up thea. it be over. you know it doe not often come here twice in the same night. i think we shall dare now to be comfortable. 
he lift a dish cover and help his wife and daughter. his face be line and fall like an old man s after debauch but his hand do not shake and his voice be clear. a he work to restore u by speech and action he remind me of a grey muzzle collie herd demoralise sheep. 
after dinner we sit round the din room fire the draw room might have be under the shadow for aught we know talk with the intimacy of gipsy by the wayside or of wound compare note after a skirmish. by eleven o clock the three between them have give me every name and detail they could recall that in any way bore on the house and what they know of it history. 
we go to bed in a fortify blaze of electric light. my one fear be that the blast gust of depression would return the sure way of course to bring it. i lay awake till dawn breathe quickly and sweat lightly beneath what de quincey inadequately describe a the oppression of inexpiable guilt. now a soon a the lovely day be break i fell into the most terrible of all dream that joyous one in which all past evil ha not only be wipe out of our life but ha never be commit. and in the very bliss of our assure innocence before our love shriek and change countenance we wake to the day we have earn. 
it be a coolish morning but we prefer to breakfast in the south verandah. the forenoon we spend in the garden pretend to play game that come out of box such a croquet and clock golf. but most of the time we draw together and talk. the young man who know all about south american railway take miss m leod for a walk in the afternoon and at five m leod thoughtfully whirl u all up to dine in town. 
now don t say you will tell the psychological society and that you will come again say miss m leod a we part. because i know you will not. 
you should not say that say her mother. you should say goodbye mr. perseus. come again. 
not him. the girl cry. he ha see the medusa s head. 
look at myself in the restaurant s mirror it seem to me that i have not much benefit by my week end. next morning i write out all my holmescroft note at full length in the hope that by so do i could put it all behind me. but the experience work on my mind a they say certain imperfectly understand ray work on the body. 
i be le calculate to make a sherlock holmes than any man i know for i lack both method and patience yet the idea of follow up the trouble to it source fascinate me. i have no theory to go on except a vague idea that i have come between two pole of a discharge and have take a shock mean for some one else. this be follow by a feel of intense irritation. i wait cautiously on myself expect to be overtake by horror of the supernatural but my self persist in be humanly indignant exactly a though it have be the victim of a practical joke. it be in great pain and upheaval that i felt in every fibre but it dominant idea to put it coarsely be to get back a bite of it own. by this i know that i might go forward if i could find the way. 
after a few day it occur to me to go to the office of mr. j. m. m. baxter the solicitor who have sell holmescroft to m leod. i explain i have some notion of buy the place. would he act for me in the matter. 
mr. baxter a large greyish throaty voice man show no enthusiasm. i sell it to mr. m leod he say. it ud scarcely do for me to start on the run down tack now. but i can recommend. 
i know he s ask an awful price i interrupt and atop of it he want an extra thousand for what he call your clean bill of health. 
mr. baxter sit up in his chair. i have all his attention. 
your guarantee with the house. don t you remember it. 
yes yes. that no death have take place in the house since it be build. i remember perfectly. 
he do not gulp a untrained men do when they lie but his jaw move stickily and his eye turn towards the deed box on the wall dull. i count second one two three one two three up to ten. a man i know can live through age of mental depression in that time. 
i remember perfectly. his mouth open a little a though it have taste old bitterness. 
of course that sort of thing doesn t appeal to me. i go on. i don t expect to buy a house free from death. 
certainly not. no one doe. but it be mr. m leod s fancy his wife s rather i believe. and since we could meet it it be my duty to my client at whatever cost to my own feeling to make him pay. 
that s really why i come to you. i understand from him you know the place well. 
oh yes. always do. it originally belong to some connection of mine. 
the miss moultrie i suppose. how interest. they must have love the place before the country round about be build up. 
they be very fond of it indeed. 
i don t wonder. so restful and sunny. i don t see how they could have bring themselves to part with it. 
now it be one of the most constant peculiarity of the english that in polite conversation and i have strive to be polite no one ever doe or sell anything for mere money s sake. 
miss agnes the young fell ill. he space his word a little. and a they be very much attach to each other that break up the home. 
naturally. i fancy it must have be something of that kind. one doesn t associate the staffordshire moultries. my demon of irresponsibility at that instant create em. with with be hard up. 
i don t know whether we re relate to them he answer importantly. we may be for our branch of the family come from the midland. 
i give this talk at length because i be so proud of my first attempt at detective work. when i leave him twenty minute late with instruction to move against the owner of holmescroft with a view to purchase i be more bewilder than any doctor watson at the open of a story. 
why should a middle age solicitor turn plover egg colour and drop his jaw when remind of so innocent and festal a matter a that no death have ever occur in a house that he have sell. if i know my english vocabulary at all the tone in which he say the young sister fell ill mean that she have go out of her mind. that might explain his change of countenance and it be just possible that her demented influence still hang about holmescroft. but the rest be beyond me. 
i be relieve when i reach m leod s city office and could tell him what i have do not what i think. 
m leod be quite will to enter into the game of the pretend purchase but do not see how it would help if i know baxter. 
he s the only live soul i can get at who be connect with holmescroft i say. 
ah. live soul be good say m leod. at any rate our little girl will be please that you be still interest in u. win t you come down some day this week. 
how be it there now. i ask. 
he screw up his face. simply frightful. he say. thea be at droitwich. 
i should like it immensely but i must cultivate baxter for the present. you ll be sure and keep him busy your end win t you. 
he look at me with quiet contempt. do not be afraid. i shall be a good jew. i shall be my own solicitor. 
before a fortnight be over baxter admit ruefully that m leod be good than most firm in the business. we buyer be coy argumentative shock at the price of holmescroft inquisitive and cold by turn but mr. m leod the seller easily meet and surpass u. and mr. baxter enter every letter telegram and consultation at the proper rate in a cinematograph film of a bill. at the end of a month he say it look a though m leod thank to him be really go to listen to reason. i be many pound out of pocket but i have learn something of mr. baxter on the human side. i deserve it. never in my life have i work to conciliate amuse and flat a human be a i work over my solicitor. 
it appear that he golf. therefore i be an enthusiastic beginner anxious to learn. twice i invade his office with a bag. m leod lend it. full of the spelicans need in this detestable game and a vocabulary to match. the third time the ice break and mr. baxter take me to his link quite ten mile off where in a maze of tramway line railroad and nursery maid we skelped our divotted way round nine hole like barge plunge through head sea. he play vilely and have never expect to meet any one bad. but a he realise my form i think he begin to like me for he take me in hand by the two hour together. after a fortnight he could give me no more than a stroke a hole and when with this allowance i once manage to beat him by one he be honestly glad and assure me that i should be a golfer if i stick to it. i be stick to it for my own end but now and again my conscience prick me. for the man be a nice man. between game he supply me with odd piece of evidence such a that he have know the moultries all his life be their cousin and that miss mary the eldest be an unforgiving woman who would never let bygone be. i naturally wonder what she might have against him. and somehow connect him unfavourably with mad agnes. 
people ought to forgive and forget he volunteer one day between round. specially where in the nature of thing they can t be sure of their deduction. don t you think so. 
it all depend on the nature of the evidence on which one form one s judgment i answer. 
nonsense. he cry. i m lawyer enough to know that there s nothing in the world so mislead a circumstantial evidence. never be. 
why. have you ever see men hang on it. 
hang. people have be suppose to be eternally lose on it his face turn grey again. i don t know how it be with you but my consolation be that god must know. he must. thing that seem on the face of em like murder or say suicide may appear different to god. heh. 
that s what the murderer and the suicide can always hope i suppose. 
i have express myself clumsily a usual. the fact a god know em may be different even after the most clinch evidence. i ve always say that both a a lawyer and a man but some people win t i don t want to judge em we ll say they can t believe it. whereas i say there s always a work chance a certainty that the bad hasn t happen. he stop and clear his throat. now let s come on. this time next week i shall be take my holiday. 
what link. i ask carelessly while twin in a perambulator get out of our line of fire. 
a potty little nine hole affair at a hydro in the midland. my cousin stay there. always will. not but what the fourth and the seventh hole take some do. you could manage it though he say encouragingly. you re do much good. it s only your approach shot that be weak. 
you re right. i can t approach for nut. i shall go to piece while you re away with no one to coach me i say mournfully. 
i haven t teach you anything he say delight with the compliment. 
i owe all i ve learn to you anyhow. when will you come back. 
look here he begin. i don t know your engagement but i ve no one to play with at burry mill. never have. why couldn t you take a few day off and join me there. i warn you it will be rather dull. it s a throat and gout place bath massage electricity and so forth. but the fourth and the seventh hole really take some do. 
i m for the game i answer valiantly. heaven well know that i hat every stroke and word of it. 
that s the proper spirit. a their lawyer i must ask you not to say anything to my cousin about holmescroft. it upset em. always do. but speak a man to man it would be very pleasant for me if you could see your way to. 
i saw it a soon a decency permit and thank him sincerely. accord to my now well develop theory he have certainly misappropriate his age cousin monies under power of attorney and have probably drive poor agnes moultrie out of her wit but i wish that he be not so gentle and good temper and innocent eye. 
before i join him at burry mill hydro i spend a night at holmescroft. miss m leod have return from her hydro and first we make very merry on the open lawn in the sunshine over the manner and custom of the english resort to such place. she know dozen of hydros and warn me how to behave in them while mr. and mr. m leod stand aside and adore her. 
ah. that s the way she always come back to u he say. pity it wear off so soon ain t it. you ought to hear her sing with mirth thou pretty bird. 
we have the house to face through the even and there we neither laugh nor sing. the gloom fell on u a we enter and do not shift till ten o clock when we crawl out a it be from beneath it. 
it ha be bad this summer say mr. m leod in a whisper after we realise that we be free. sometimes i think the house will get up and cry out it be so bad. 
how. 
have you forget what come after the depression. 
so then we wait about the small fire and the dead air in the room presently fill and press down upon u with the sensation. but word be useless here. a though some dumb and bind power be strive against gag and bond to deliver it soul of an articulate word. it pass in a few minute and i fell to think about mr. baxter s conscience and agnes moultrie go mad in the well light bedroom that wait me. these reflection secure me a night during which i rediscover how from purely mental cause a man can be physically sick. but the sickness be bliss compare to my dream when the bird wake. on my departure m leod give me a beautiful narwhal s horn much a a nurse give a child sweet for be brave at a dentist s. 
there s no duplicate of it in the world he say else it would have come to old max m leod. and he tuck it into the motor. miss m leod on the far side of the car whisper have you find out anything mr. perseus. 
i shake my head. 
then i shall be chain to my rock all my life she go on. only don t tell papa. 
i suppose she be think of the young gentleman who specialise in south american rail for i notice a ring on the third finger of her leave hand. 
i go straight from that house to burry mill hydro keen for the first time in my life on play golf which be guarantee to occupy the mind. baxter have take me a room communicate with his own and after lunch introduce me to a tall horse head elderly lady of decide manner whom a white haired maid push along in a bath chair through the park like ground of the hydro. she be miss mary moultrie and she cough and clear her throat just like baxter. she suffer she tell me it be a moultrie castemark from some obscure form of chronic bronchitis complicate with spasm of the glottis. and in a dead flat voice with a sink eye that look and saw not tell me what wash gargle pastille and inhalation she have prove most beneficial. from her i be pass on to her young sister miss elizabeth a small and wither thing with twitch lip victim she tell me to very much the same sort of throat but secretly devote to another set of medicine. when she go away with baxter and the bath chair i fell across a major of the indian army with gout in his glassy eye and a stomach which he have take all round the continent. he lay everything before me. and him i escape only to be confide in by a matron with a tendency to follicular tonsilitis and eczema. baxter wait hand and foot on his cousin till five o clock try a i saw to atone for his treatment of the dead sister. miss mary order him about like a dog. 
i warn you it would be dull he say when we meet in the smoke room. 
it s tremendously interest i say. but how about a look round the link. 
unluckily damp always affect my eldest cousin. i ve get to buy her a new bronchitis kettle. arthur break her old one yesterday. 
we slip out to the chemist s shop in the town and he buy a large glitter tin thing whose working he explain. 
i m use to this sort of work. i come up here pretty often he say. i ve the family throat too. 
you re a good man i say. a very good man. 
he turn towards me in the even light among the beech and his face be change to what it might have be a generation before. 
you see he say huskily there be the young agnes. before she fell ill you know. but she didn t like leave her sister. never would. he hurry on with his odd shape load and leave me among the ruin of my black theory. the man with that face have do agnes moultrie no wrong. 
we never play our game. i be wake between two and three in the morning from my hygienic bed by baxter in an ulster over orange and white pyjama which i should never have suspect from his character. 
my cousin ha have some sort of a seizure he say. will you come. i don t want to wake the doctor. don t want to make a scandal. quick. 
so i come quickly and lead by the white haired arthur in a jacket and petticoat enter a double bed room reek with steam and friar s balsam. the electric be all on. miss mary i know her by her height be at the open window wrestle with miss elizabeth who grip her round the knee. 
miss mary s hand be at her own throat which be streak with blood. 
she s do it. she s do it too. miss elizabeth pant. hold her. help me. 
oh i say. woman don t cut their throat baxter whisper. 
my god. ha she cut her throat. the maid cry out and with no warn roll over in a faint. baxter push her under the wash basin and leap to hold the gaunt woman who crow and whistle a she struggle toward the window. he take her by the shoulder and she strike out wildly. 
all right. she s only cut her hand he say. wet towel quick. 
while i get that he push her backward. her strength seem almost a great a his. i swab at her throat when i could and find no mark. then help him to control her a little. miss elizabeth leap back to bed wail like a child. 
tie up her hand somehow say baxter. don t let it drip about the place. she he step on break glass in his slipper she must have smash a pane. 
miss mary lurch towards the open window again drop on her knee her head on the sill and lay quiet surrender the cut hand to me. 
what do she do. baxter turn towards miss elizabeth in the far bed. 
she be go to throw herself out of the window be the answer. i stop her and send arthur for you. oh we can never hold up our head again. 
miss mary writhe and fight for breath. baxter find a shawl which he throw over her shoulder. 
nonsense. say he. that isn t like mary. but his face work when he say it. 
you wouldn t believe about aggie john. perhaps you will now. say miss elizabeth. i saw her do it and she s cut her throat too. 
she hasn t i say. it s only her hand. 
miss mary suddenly break from u with an indescribable grunt fly rather than run to her sister s bed and there shake her a one furious schoolgirl would shake another. 
no such thing she croak. how dare you think so you wicked little fool. 
get into bed mary say baxter. you ll catch a chill. 
she obey but sit up with the grey shawl round her lean shoulder glare at her sister. i m good now she pant. arthur let me sit out too long. where s arthur. the kettle. 
never mind arthur say baxter. you get the kettle. i hasten to bring it from the side table. now mary a god see you tell me what you ve do. 
his lip be dry and he could not moisten. them with his tongue. 
miss mary apply herself to the mouth of the kettle and between indraws of steam say. the spasm come on just now while i be asleep. i be nearly choke to death. so i go to the window i ve do it often before without wake any one. bessie s such an old maid about draught. i tell you i be choke to death. i couldn t manage the catch and i nearly fell out. that window open too low. i cut my hand try to save myself. who ha tie it up in this filthy handkerchief. i wish you have have my throat bessie. i never be near die. she scowl on u all impartially while her sister sob. 
from the bottom of the bed we hear a quiver voice. be she dead. have they take her away. oh i never could bear the sight o blood. 
arthur say miss mary you be an hireling. go away. 
it be my belief that arthur crawl out on all four but i be busy pick up break glass from the carpet. 
then baxter seat by the side of the bed begin to cross examine in a voice i scarcely recognise. no one could for an instant have doubt the genuine rage of miss mary against her sister her cousin or her maid. and that a doctor should have be call in for she do me the honour of call me doctor be the last drop. she be choke with her throat. have rush to the window for air. have near pitch out and in catch at the window bar have cut her hand. over and over she make this clear to the intent baxter. then she turn on her sister and tongue lash her savagely. 
you mustn t blame me miss bessie falter at last. you know what we think of night and day. 
i m come to that say baxter. listen to me. what you do mary mislead four people into think you you mean to do away with yourself. 
isn t one suicide in the family enough. oh god help and pity u. you couldn t have believe that. she cry. 
the evidence be complete. now don t you think baxter s finger wag under her nose can t you think that poor aggie do the same thing at holmescroft when she fell out of the window. 
she have the same throat say miss elizabeth. exactly the same symptom. don t you remember mary. 
which be her bedroom. i ask of baxter in an undertone. 
over the south verandah look on to the tennis lawn. 
i nearly fell out of that very window when i be at holmescroft open it to get some air. the sill doesn t come much above your knee i say. 
you hear that mary. mary do you hear what this gentleman say. win t you believe that what nearly happen to you must have happen to poor aggie that night. for god s sake for her sake mary win t you believe. 
there be a long silence while the steam kettle puff. 
if i could have proof if i could have proof say she and break into most horrible tear. 
baxter motion to me and i creep away to my room and lay awake till morning think more specially of the dumb thing at holmescroft which wish to explain itself. i hat miss mary a perfectly a though i have know her for twenty year but i felt that alive or dead i should not like her to condemn me. 
yet at mid day when i saw miss mary in her bathchair arthur behind and baxter and miss elizabeth on either side in the park like ground of the hydro i find it difficult to arrange my word. 
now that you know all about it say baxter aside after the first strangeness of our meet be over it s only fair to tell you that my poor cousin do not die in holmescroft at all. she be dead when they find her under the window in the morning. just dead. 
under that laburnum outside the window. i ask for i suddenly remember the crook evil thing. 
exactly. she break the tree in fall. but no death ha ever take place in the house so far a we be concern. you can make yourself quite easy on that point. mr. m leod s extra thousand for what you call the clean bill of health be something toward my cousin estate when we sell. it be my duty a their lawyer to get it for them at any cost to my own feeling. 
i know good than to argue when the english talk about their duty. so i agree with my solicitor. 
their sister s death must have be a great blow to your cousin i go on. the bath chair be behind me. 
unspeakable baxter whisper. they brood on it day and night. no wonder. if their theory of poor aggie make away with herself be correct she be eternally lose. 
do you believe that she make away with herself. 
no thank god. never have. and after what happen to mary last night i see perfectly what happen to poor aggie. she have the family throat too. by the way mary think you be a doctor. otherwise she wouldn t like your have be in her room. 
very good. be she convince now about her sister s death. 
she d give anything to be able to believe it but she s a hard woman and brood along certain line make one groovy. i have sometimes be afraid of her reason on the religious side don t you know. elizabeth doesn t matter. brain of a hen. always have. 
here arthur summon me to the bath chair and the ravage face beneath it knit shetland wool hood of miss mary moultrie. 
i need not remind you i hope of the seal of secrecy absolute secrecy in your profession she begin. thank to my cousin s and my sister s stupidity you have find out she blow her nose. 
please don t excite her sir say arthur at the back. 
but my dear miss moultrie i only know what i ve see of course but it seem to me that what you think be a tragedy in your sister s case turn out on your own evidence so to speak to have be an accident a dreadfully sad one but absolutely an accident. 
do you believe that too. she cry. or be you only say it to comfort me. 
i believe it from the bottom of my heart. come down to holmescroft for an hour for half an hour and satisfy yourself. 
of what. you don t understand. i see the house every day every night. i be always there in spirit wake or sleep. i couldn t face it in reality. 
but you must i say. if you go there in the spirit the great need for you to go there in the flesh. go to your sister s room once more and see the window i nearly fell out of it myself. it s it s awfully low and dangerous. that would convince you i plead. 
yet aggie have sleep in that room for year she interrupt. 
you ve sleep in your room here for a long time haven t you. but you nearly fell out of the window when you be choke. 
that be true. that be one thing true she nod. and i might have be kill a perhaps aggie be kill. 
in that case your own sister and cousin and maid would have say you have commit suicide miss moultrie. come down to holmescroft and go over the place just once. 
you be lie she say quite quietly. you don t want me to come down to see a window. it be something else. i warn you we be evangelicals. we don t believe in prayer for the dead. a the tree fall. 
yes. i daresay. but you persist in think that your sister commit suicide. 
no. no. i have always pray that i might have misjudge her. 
arthur at the bath chair speak up. oh miss mary. you would ave it from the first that poor miss aggie ad make away with herself. an of course miss bessie take the notion from you. only master mister john stand out and and i d ave take my bible oath you be make away with yourself last night. 
miss mary lean towards me one finger on my sleeve. 
if go to holmescroft kill me she say you will have the murder of a fellow creature on your conscience for all eternity. 
i ll risk it i answer. remember what torment the mere reflection of her torment have cast on holmescroft and remember above all the dumb thing that fill the house with it desire to speak i felt that there might be bad thing. 
baxter be amaze at the propose visit but at a nod from that terrible woman go off to make arrangement. then i send a telegram to m leod bid him and his vacate holmescroft for that afternoon. miss mary should be alone with her dead a i have be alone. 
i expect untold trouble in transport her but to do her justice the promise give for the journey she undergo it without murmur spasm or unnecessary word. miss bessie press in a corner by the window weep behind her veil and from time to time try to take hold of her sister s hand. baxter wrap himself in his newly find happiness a selfishly a a bridegroom for he sit still and smile. 
so long a i know that aggie didn t make away with herself he explain i tell you frankly i don t care what happen. she s a hard a a rock mary. always be. she win t die. 
we lead her out on to the platform like a blind woman and so get her into the fly. the half hour crawl to holmescroft be the most rack experience of the day. m leod have obey my instruction. there be no one visible in the house or the garden. and the front door stand open. 
miss mary rise from beside her sister step forth first and enter the hall. 
come bessie she cry. 
i daren t. oh i daren t. 
come. her voice have alter. i felt baxter start. there s nothing to be afraid of. 
good heaven. say baxter. she s run up the stair. we d good follow. 
let s wait below. she s go to the room. 
we hear the door of the bedroom i know open and shut and we wait in the lemon colour hall heavy with the scent of flower. 
i ve never be into it since it be sell baxter sigh. what a lovely restful plate it be. poor aggie use to arrange the flower. 
restful. i begin but stop of a sudden for i felt all over my bruise soul that baxter be speak truth. it be a light spacious airy house full of the sense of well be and peace above all thing of peace. i venture into the din room where the thoughtful m leod s have leave a small fire. there be no terror there present or lurk. and in the draw room which for good reason we have never care to enter the sun and the peace and the scent of the flower work together a be fit in an inhabit house. when i return to the hall baxter be sweetly asleep on a couch look most unlike a middle age solicitor who have spend a break night with an exact cousin. 
there be ample time for me to review it all to felicitate myself upon my magnificent acumen. bar some error about baxter a a thief and possibly a murderer. before the door above open and baxter evidently a light sleeper spring awake. 
i ve have a heavenly little nap he say rub his eye with the back of his hand like a child. good lord. that s not their step. 
but it be. i have never before be privilege to see the shadow turn backward on the dial the year rip bodily off poor human shoulder old sink eye fill and alight harsh lip moisten and human. 
john miss mary call i know now. aggie didn t do it. and she didn t do it. echo miss mary. 
i do not think it wrong to say a prayer miss mary continue. not for her soul but for our peace. then i be convince. 
then we get conviction the young sister pip. 
we ve misjudge poor aggie john. but i feel she know now. wherever she be she know that we know she be guiltless. 
yes she know. i felt it too say miss elizabeth. 
i never doubt say john baxter whose face be beautiful at that hour. not from the first. never have. 
you never offer me proof john. now thank god it will not be the same any more. i can think henceforward of aggie without sorrow. she trip absolutely trip across the hall. what idea these jew have of arrange furniture. she spy me behind a big cloisonnee vase. i ve see the window she say remotely. you take a great risk in advise me to undertake such a journey. however a it turn out. i forgive you and i pray you may never know what mental anguish mean. bessie. look at this peculiar piano. do you suppose doctor these people would offer one tea. i miss mine. 
i will go and see i say and explore m leod s new build servant wing. it be in the servant hall that i unearth the m leod family burst with anxiety. 
tea for three quick i say. if you ask me any question now i shall have a fit. so mr. m leod get it and i be butler amid murmur apology from baxter still smile and self absorb and the cold disapproval of miss mary who think the pattern of the china vulgar. however she eat well and even ask me whether i would not like a cup of tea for myself. 
they go away in the twilight the twilight that i have once fear. they be go to an hotel in london to rest after the fatigue of the day and a their fly turn down the drive i caper on the door step with the all darken house behind me. 
then i hear the uncertain foot of the m leods and bid them not to turn on the light but to feel to feel what i have do. for the shadow be go with the dumb desire in the air. they draw short but afterwards deep breath like bather enter chill water separate one from the other move about the hall tiptoe upstairs race down and then miss m leod and i believe her mother though she deny this embrace me. i know m leod do. 
it be a disgraceful even. to say we riot through the house be to put it mildly. we play a sort of blind man s buff along the dark passage in the unlighted draw room and little din room call cheerily to each other after each exploration that here and here and here the trouble have remove itself. we come up to the bedroom mine for the night again and sit the woman on the bed and we men on chair drink in bless draught of peace and comfort and cleanliness of soul while i tell them my tale in full and receive fresh praise thank and blessing. 
when the servant return from their day s out give u a supper of cold fry fish m leod have sense enough to open no wine. we have be practically drink since nightfall and grow incoherent on water and milk. 
i like that baxter say m leod. he s a sharp man. the death wasn t in the house but he run it pretty close ain t it. 
and the joke of it be that he suppose i want to buy the place from you i say. be you sell. 
not for twice what i pay for it now say m leod. i ll keep you in fur all your life but not our holmescroft. 
no never our holmescroft say miss m leod. we ll ask him here on tuesday mamma. they squeeze each other s hand. 
now tell me say mr. m leod that tall one i saw out of the scullery window do she tell you she be always here in the spirit. i hate her. she make all this trouble. it be not her house after she have sell it. what do you think. 
i suppose i answer she brood over what she believe be her sister s suicide night and day she confess she do and her thought be concentrate on this place they felt like a like a burn glass. 
burn glass be good say m leod. 
i say it be like a light of blackness turn on u cry the girl twiddle her ring. that must have be when the tall one think bad about her sister and the house. 
ah the poor aggie. say mr. m leod. the poor aggie try to tell every one it be not so. no wonder we felt something wish to say something. thea max do you remember that night. 
we need not remember any more m leod interrupt. it be not our trouble. they have tell each other now. 
do you think then say miss m leod that those two the live one be actually tell something upstairs in your in the room. 
i can t say. at any rate they be make happy and they eat a big tea afterwards. a your father say it be not our trouble any long thank god. 
amen. say m leod. now thea let u have some music after all these month. with mirth thou pretty bird ain t it. you ought to hear that. 
and in the half light hall thea sing an old english song that i have never hear before. 
with mirth thou pretty bird rejoice thy maker s praise enhance. lift up thy shrill and pleasant voice thy god be high advance. thy food before he do provide and give it in a fit side wherewith be thou suffice. why shouldst thou now unpleasant be thy wrath against god vent that he a little bird make thee thy silly head torment because he make thee not a man. oh peace. he hath well think thereon therewith be thou suffice. 
the rabbi s song. 
if think can reach to heaven on heaven let it dwell for fear that think be give like power to reach to hell. for fear the desolation and darkness of thy mind perplex an habitation which thou hast leave behind. 
let nothing linger after no whisper ghost remain in wall or beam or rafter of any hate or pain. cleanse and call home thy spirit deny her leave to cast on aught thy heir inherit the shadow of her past. 
for think in all thy sadness what road our grief may take. whose brain reflect our madness or whom our terror shake. for think l any languish by cause of thy distress the arrow of our anguish fly farther than we guess. 
our life our tear a water be spill upon the grind. god giveth no man quarter yet god a mean hath find. though faith and hope have vanish and even love grow dim. a mean whereby his banish be not expel from him. 
