indian tale. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
the fine story in the world. 
with the main guard. 
wee willie winkie. 
the rout of the white hussar. 
at twenty two. 
the court of dinah shadd. 
the story of muhammad din. 
in flood time. 
my own true ghost story. 
the big drink draf. 
by word of mouth. 
the drum of the fore and aft. 
the send of dana da. 
on the city wall. 
the break link handicap. 
on greenhow hill. 
to be file for reference. 
the man who would be king. 
the gate of the hundred sorrow. 
the incarnation of krishna mulvaney. 
his majesty the king. 
the strange ride of morrowbie juke. 
in the house of suddhoo. 
black jack. 
the take of lungtungpen. 
the phantom rickshaw. 
on the strength of a liken. 
private learoyd s story. 
wressley of the foreign office. 
the solid muldoon. 
the three musketeer. 
beyond the pale. 
the god from the machine. 
the daughter of the regiment. 
the madness of private ortheris. 
l envoi. 
the fine story in the world. 
or ever the knightly year be go with the old world to the grave i be a king in babylon and you be a christian slave w. e. henley. 
his name be charlie mears. he be the only son of his mother who be a widow and he live in the north of london come into the city every day to work in a bank. he be twenty year old and suffer from aspiration. i meet him in a public billiard saloon where the marker call him by his give name and he call the marker bullseyes. charlie explain a little nervously that he have only come to the place to look on and since look on at game of skill be not a cheap amusement for the young i suggest that charlie should go back to his mother. 
that be our first step toward good acquaintance. he would call on me sometimes in the evening instead of run about london with his fellow clerk. and before long speak of himself a a young man must he tell me of his aspiration which be all literary. he desire to make himself an undying name chiefly through verse though he be not above send story of love and death to the drop a penny in the slot journal. it be my fate to sit still while charlie read me poem of many hundred line and bulky fragment of play that would surely shake the world. my reward be his unreserved confidence and the self revelation and trouble of a young man be almost a holy a those of a maiden. charlie have never fall in love but be anxious to do so on the first opportunity. he believe in all thing good and all thing honorable but at the same time be curiously careful to let me see that he know his way about the world a befit a bank clerk on twenty five shilling a week. he rhyme dive with love and moon with june and devoutly believe that they have never so be rhyme before. the long lame gap in his play he fill up with hasty word of apology and description and sweep on see all that he intend to do so clearly that he esteem it already do and turn to me for applause. 
i fancy that his mother do not encourage his aspiration and i know that his write table at home be the edge of his washstand. this he tell me almost at the outset of our acquaintance. when he be ravage my bookshelf and a little before i be implore to speak the truth a to his chance of write something really great you know. maybe i encourage him too much for one night he call on me his eye flame with excitement and say breathlessly. 
do you mind can you let me stay here and write all this even. i win t interrupt you i win t really. there s no place for me to write in at my mother s. 
what s the trouble. i say know well what that trouble be. 
i ve a notion in my head that would make the most splendid story that be ever write. do let me write it out here. it s such a notion. 
there be no resist the appeal. i set him a table. he hardly thank me but plunge into the work at once. for half an hour the pen scratch without stop. then charlie sigh and tug his hair. the scratch grow slow there be more erasure and at last cease. the fine story in the world would not come forth. 
it look such awful rot now he say mournfully. and yet it seem so good when i be think about it. what s wrong. 
i could not dishearten him by say the truth. so i answer. perhaps you don t feel in the mood for write. 
yes i do except when i look at this stuff. ugh. 
read me what you ve do i say. 
he read and it be wondrous bad and he pause at all the specially turgid sentence expect a little approval. for he be proud of those sentence a i know he would be. 
it need compression i suggest cautiously. 
i hate cut my thing down. i don t think you could alter a word here without spoil the sense. it read good aloud than when i be write it. 
charlie you re suffer from an alarm disease afflict a numerous class. put the thing by and tackle it again in a week. 
i want to do it at once. what do you think of it. 
how can i judge from a half write tale. tell me the story a it lie in your head. 
charlie tell and in the tell there be everything that his ignorance have so carefully prevent from escape into the write word. i look at him and wonder whether it be possible that he do not know the originality the power of the notion that have come in his way. it be distinctly a notion among notion. men have be puff up with pride by notion not a tithe a excellent and practicable. but charlie babble on serenely interrupt the current of pure fancy with sample of horrible sentence that he purpose to use. i hear him out to the end. it would be folly to allow his idea to remain in his own inept hand when i could do so much with it. not all that could be do indeed. but oh so much. 
what do you think. he say at last. i fancy i shall call it the story of a ship. 
i think the idea s pretty good. but you win t be able to handle it for ever so long. now i. 
would it be of any use to you. would you care to take it. i should be proud say charlie promptly. 
there be few thing sweet in this world than the guileless hot head intemperate open admiration of a junior. even a woman in her blind devotion doe not fall into the gait of the man she adore tilt her bonnet to the angle at which he wear his hat or interlard her speech with his pet oath. and charlie do all these thing. still it be necessary to salve my conscience before i possess myself of charlie s thought. 
let s make a bargain. i ll give you a five for the notion i say. 
charlie become a bank clerk at once. 
oh that s impossible. between two pal you know if i may call you so and speak a a man of the world i couldn t. take the notion if it s any use to you. i ve heap more. 
he have none know this good than i but they be the notion of other men. 
look at it a a matter of business between men of the world i return. five pound will buy you any number of poetry book. business be business and you may be sure i shouldn t give that price unless. 
oh if you put it that way say charlie visibly move by the think of the book. the bargain be clinch with an agreement that he should at unstated interval come to me with all the notion that he possess should have a table of his own to write at and unquestioned right to inflict upon me all his poem and fragment of poem. then i say now tell me how you come by this idea. 
it come by itself charlie s eye open a little. 
yes but you tell me a great deal about the hero that you must have read before somewhere. 
i haven t any time for read except when you let me sit here and on sunday i m on my bicycle or down the river all day. there s nothing wrong about the hero be there. 
tell me again and i shall understand clearly. you say that your hero go pirate. how do he live. 
he be on the low deck of this ship thing that i be tell you about. 
what sort of ship. 
it be the kind row with oar and the sea spurt through the oar hole and the men row sit up to their knee in water. then there s a bench run down between the two line of oar and an overseer with a whip walk up and down the bench to make the men work. 
how do you know that. 
it s in the tale. there s a rope run overhead loop to the upper deck for the overseer to catch hold of when the ship roll. when the overseer miss the rope once and fall among the rower remember the hero laugh at him and get lick for it. he s chain to his oar of course the hero. 
how be he chain. 
with an iron band round his waist fix to the bench he sit on and a sort of handcuff on his leave wrist chain him to the oar. he s on the low deck where the bad men be send and the only light come from the hatchway and through the oar hole. can t you imagine the sunlight just squeeze through between the handle and the hole and wobble about a the ship move. 
i can but i can t imagine your imagine it. 
how could it be any other way. now you listen to me. the long oar on the upper deck be manage by four men to each bench the low one by three and the low of all by two. remember it s quite dark on the low deck and all the men there go mad. when a man dy at his oar on that deck he isn t throw overboard but cut up in his chain and stuff through the oar hole in little piece. 
why. i demand amaze not so much at the information a the tone of command in which it be fling out. 
to save trouble and to frighten the others. it need two overseer to drag a man s body up to the top deck. and if the men at the low deck oar be leave alone of course they d stop row and try to pull up the bench by all stand up together in their chain. 
you ve a most provident imagination. where have you be read about galley and galley slave. 
nowhere that i remember. i row a little when i get the chance. but perhaps if you say so i may have read something. 
he go away shortly afterward to deal with bookseller and i wonder how a bank clerk age twenty could put into my hand with a profligate abundance of detail all give with absolute assurance the story of extravagant and bloodthirsty adventure riot piracy and death in unnamed sea. he have lead his hero a desperate dance through revolt against the overseer to command of a ship of his own and ultimate establishment of a kingdom on an island somewhere in the sea you know. and delight with my paltry five pound have go out to buy the notion of other men that these might teach him how to write. i have the consolation of know that this notion be mine by right of purchase and i think that i could make something of it. 
when next he come to me he be drink royally drink on many poet for the first time reveal to him. his pupil be dilate his word tumble over each other and he wrap himself in quotation. most of all be he drink with longfellow. 
isn t it splendid. isn t it superb. he cry after hasty greeting. listen to this. 
wouldst thou so the helmsman answer know the secret of the sea. only those who brave it danger comprehend it mystery. 
by gum. 
only those who brave it danger comprehend it mystery. 
he repeat twenty time walk up and down the room and forget me. but i can understand it too he say to himself. i don t know how to thank you for that five and this. listen. 
i remember the black wharf and the ship and the sea tide toss free and the spanish sailor with beard lip and the beauty and mystery of the ship and the magic of the sea. 
i haven t brave any danger but i feel a if i know all about it. 
you certainly seem to have a grip of the sea. have you ever see it. 
when i be a little chap i go to brighton once. we use to live in coventry though before we come to london. i never saw it. 
when descend on the atlantic the gigantic storm wind of the equinox. 
he shake me by the shoulder to make me understand the passion that be shake himself. 
when that storm come he continue i think that all the oar in the ship that i be talk about get break and the rower have their chest smash in by the buck oar head. by the way have you do anything with that notion of mine yet. 
no. i be wait to hear more of it from you. tell me how in the world you re so certain about the fitting of the ship. you know nothing of ship. 
i don t know. it s a real a anything to me until i try to write it down. i be think about it only last night in bed after you have loan me treasure island. and i make up a whole lot of new thing to go into the story. 
what sort of thing. 
about the food the men eat. rotten fig and black bean and wine in a skin bag pass from bench to bench. 
be the ship build so long ago a that. 
a what. i don t know whether it be long ago or not. it s only a notion but sometimes it seem just a real a if it be true. do i bother you with talk about it. 
not in the least. do you make up anything else. 
yes but it s nonsense. charlie flush a little. 
never mind. let s hear about it. 
well i be think over the story and after awhile i get out of bed and write down on a piece of paper the sort of stuff the men might be suppose to scratch on their oar with the edge of their handcuff. it seem to make the thing more lifelike. it be so real to me y know. 
have you the paper on you. 
ye e but what s the use of show it. it s only a lot of scratch. all the same we might have em reproduce in the book on the front page. 
i ll attend to those detail. show me what your men write. 
he pull out of his pocket a sheet of note paper with a single line of scratch upon it and i put this carefully away. 
what be it suppose to mean in english. i say. 
oh i don t know. perhaps it mean i m beastly tire. it s great nonsense he repeat but all those men in the ship seem a real a people to me. do do something to the notion soon. i should like to see it write and print. 
but all you ve tell me would make a long book. 
make it then. you ve only to sit down and write it out. 
give me a little time. have you any more notion. 
not just now. i m read all the book i ve buy. they re splendid. 
when he have leave i look at the sheet of note paper with the inscription upon it. then i take my head tenderly between both hand to make certain that it be not come off or turn round. then. but there seem to be no interval between quit my room and find myself argue with a policeman outside a door mark private in a corridor of the british museum. all i demand a politely a possible be the greek antiquity man. the policeman know nothing except the rule of the museum and it become necessary to forage through all the house and office inside the gate. an elderly gentleman call away from his lunch put an end to my search by hold the note paper between finger and thumb and sniff at it scornfully. 
what doe this mean. h mm say he. so far a i can ascertain it be an attempt to write extremely corrupt greek on the part here he glare at me with intention of an extremely illiterate ah person. he read slowly from the paper _pollock erckmann tauchnitz henniker_ four name familiar to me. 
can you tell me what the corruption be suppose to mean the gist of the thing. i ask. 
i have be many time overcome with weariness in this particular employment. that be the mean. he return me the paper and i flee without a word of thank explanation or apology. 
i might have be excuse for forget much. to me of all men have be give the chance to write the most marvelous tale in the world nothing le than the story of a greek galley slave a tell by himself. small wonder that his dream have seem real to charlie. the fate that be so careful to shut the door of each successive life behind u have in this case be neglectful and charlie be look though that he do not know where never man have be permit to look with full knowledge since time begin. above all he be absolutely ignorant of the knowledge sell to me for five pound. and he would retain that ignorance for bank clerk do not understand metempsychosis and a sound commercial education doe not include greek. he would supply me here i caper among the dumb god of egypt and laugh in their batter face with material to make my tale sure so sure that the world would hail it a an impudent and vamp fiction. and i i alone would know that it be absolutely and literally true. i i alone hold this jewel to my hand for the cut and polish. therefore i dance again among the god till a policeman saw me and take step in my direction. 
it remain now only to encourage charlie to talk and here there be no difficulty. but i have forget those accurse book of poetry. he come to me time after time a useless a a surcharge phonograph drink on byron shelley or keats. know now what the boy have be in his past life and desperately anxious not to lose one word of his babble i could not hide from him my respect and interest. he misconstrue both into respect for the present soul of charlie mears to whom life be a new a it be to adam and interest in his reading. and stretch my patience to break point by recite poetry not his own now but that of others. i wish every english poet blot out of the memory of mankind. i blaspheme the mighty name of song because they have draw charlie from the path of direct narrative and would late spur him to imitate them. but i choke down my impatience until the first flood of enthusiasm should have spend itself and the boy return to his dream. 
what s the use of my tell you what i think when these chap write thing for the angel to read. he growl one even. why don t you write something like theirs. 
i don t think you re treat me quite fairly i say speak under strong restraint. 
i ve give you the story he say shortly replunging into lara. 
but i want the detail. 
the thing i make up about that damn ship that you call a galley. they re quite easy. you can just make em up yourself. turn up the gas a little i want to go on read. 
i could have break the gas globe over his head for his amaze stupidity. i could indeed make up thing for myself do i only know what charlie do not know that he know. but since the door be shut behind me i could only wait his youthful pleasure and strive to keep him in good temper. one minute s want of guard might spoil a priceless revelation. now and again he would toss his book aside he keep them in my room for his mother would have be shock at the waste of good money have she see them and launch into his sea dream again i curse all the poet of england. the plastic mind of the bank clerk have be overlay color and distort by that which he have read and the result a deliver be a confuse tangle of other voice most like the mutter song through a city telephone in the busy part of the day. 
he talk of the galley his own galley have he but know it with illustration borrow from the bride of abydos. he point the experience of his hero with quotation from the corsair and throw in deep and desperate moral reflection from cain and manfred expect me to use them all. only when the talk turn on longfellow be the jar cross current dumb and i know that charlie be speak the truth a he remember it. 
what do you think of this. i say one even a soon a i understand the medium in which his memory work best and before he could expostulate read him the whole of the saga of king olaf. 
he listen open mouth flush his hand drum on the back of the sofa where he lay till i come to the song of einar tamberskelver and the verse. 
einar then the arrow take from the loosen string answer. that be norway break neath thy hand o king. 
he gasp with pure delight of sound. 
that s good than byron a little i venture. 
good. why it s true. how could he have know. 
i go back and repeat. 
what be that. say olaf stand on the quarter deck something hear i like the strand of a shatter wreck. 
how could he have know how the ship crash and the oar rip out and go z zzp all along the line. why only the other night. but go back please and read the skerry of shriek again. 
no i m tire. let s talk. what happen the other night. 
i have an awful nightmare about that galley of ours. i dream i be drown in a fight. you see we run alongside another ship in harbor. the water be dead still except where our oar whip it up. you know where i always sit in the galley. he speak haltingly at first under a fine english fear of be laugh at. 
no. that s news to me i answer meekly my heart begin to beat. 
on the fourth oar from the bow on the right side on the upper deck. there be four of u at that oar all chain. i remember watch the water and try to get my handcuff off before the row begin. then we close up on the other ship and all their fight men jump over our bulwark and my bench break and i be pin down with the three other fellow on top of me and the big oar jam across our back. 
well. charlie s eye be alive and alight. he be look at the wall behind my chair. 
i don t know how we fight. the men be trample all over my back and i lay low. then our rower on the leave side tie to their oar you know begin to yell and back water. i could hear the water sizzle and we spin round like a cockchafer and i know lie where i be that there be a galley come up bow on to ram u on the leave side. i could just lift up my head and see her sail over the bulwark. we want to meet her bow to bow but it be too late. we could only turn a little bite because the galley on our right have hook herself on to u and stop our move. then by gum. there be a crash. our leave oar begin to break a the other galley the move one y know stick her nose into them. then the low deck oar shoot up through the deck plank butt first and one of them jump clean up into the air and come down again close to my head. 
how be that manage. 
the move galley s bow be plunk them back through their own oar hole and i could hear the devil of a shindy in the deck below. then her nose catch u nearly in the middle and we tilt sideways and the fellow in the right hand galley unhitch their hook and rope and throw thing on to our upper deck arrow and hot pitch or something that sting and we go up and up and up on the leave side and the right side dip and i twist my head round and saw the water stand still a it top the right bulwark and then it curl over and crash down on the whole lot of u on the right side and i felt it hit my back and i wake. 
one minute charlie. when the sea top the bulwark what do it look like. i have my reason for ask. a man of my acquaintance have once go down with a leak ship in a still sea and have see the water level pause for an instant ere it fell on the deck. 
it look just like a banjo string draw tight and it seem to stay there for year say charlie. 
exactly. the other man have say. it look like a silver wire lay down along the bulwark and i think it be never go to break. he have pay everything except the bare life for this little valueless piece of knowledge and i have travel ten thousand weary mile to meet him and take his knowledge at second hand. but charlie the bank clerk on twenty five shilling a week he who have never be out of sight of a london omnibus know it all. it be no consolation to me that once in his life he have be force to die for his gain. i also must have die score of time but behind me because i could have use my knowledge the door be shut. 
and then. i say try to put away the devil of envy. 
the funny thing be though in all the mess i didn t feel a bite astonish or frighten. it seem a if i d be in a good many fight because i tell my next man so when the row begin. but that cad of an overseer on my deck wouldn t unloose our chain and give u a chance. he always say that we d all be set free after a battle but we never be. we never be. charlie shake his head mournfully. 
what a scoundrel. 
i should say he be. he never give u enough to eat and sometimes we be so thirsty that we use to drink salt water. i can taste that salt water still. 
now tell me something about the harbor where the fight be fight. 
i didn t dream about that. i know it be a harbor though. because we be tie up to a ring on a white wall and all the face of the stone under water be cover with wood to prevent our ram get chip when the tide make u rock. 
that s curious. our hero command the galley didn t he. 
didn t he just. he stand by the bow and shout like a good un. he be the man who kill the overseer. 
but you be all drown together charlie weren t you. 
i can t make that fit quite he say with a puzzle look. the galley must have go down with all hand and yet i fancy that the hero go on live afterward. perhaps he climb into the attack ship. i wouldn t see that of course. i be dead you know. he shiver slightly and protest that he could remember no more. 
i do not press him further but to satisfy myself that he lay in ignorance of the working of his own mind deliberately introduce him to mortimer collins s transmigration and give him a sketch of the plot before he open the page. 
what rot it all be. he say frankly at the end of an hour. i don t understand his nonsense about the red planet mar and the king and the rest of it. chuck me the longfellow again. 
i hand him the book and write out a much a i could remember of his description of the sea fight appeal to him from time to time for confirmation of fact or detail. he would answer without raise his eye from the book a assuredly a though all his knowledge lay before him on the print page. i speak under the normal key of my voice that the current might not be break and i know that he be not aware of what he be say for his thought be out on the sea with longfellow. 
charlie i ask when the rower on the gallies mutiny how do they kill their overseer. 
tear up the bench and brain em. that happen when a heavy sea be run. an overseer on the low deck slip from the centre plank and fell among the rower. they choke him to death against the side of the ship with their chain hand quite quietly and it be too dark for the other overseer to see what have happen. when he ask he be pull down too and choke and the low deck fight their way up deck by deck with the piece of the break bench bang behind em. how they howl. 
and what happen after that. 
i don t know. the hero go away red hair and red beard and all. that be after he have capture our galley i think. 
the sound of my voice irritate him and he motion slightly with his leave hand a a man doe when interruption jar. 
you never tell me he be red head before or that he capture your galley i say after a discreet interval. 
charlie do not raise his eye. 
he be a red a a red bear say he abstractedly. he come from the north. they say so in the galley when he look for rower not slave but free men. afterward year and year afterward news come from another ship or else he come back. 
his lip move in silence. he be rapturously retasting some poem before him. 
where have he be then. i be almost whisper that the sentence might come gentle to whichever section of charlie s brain be work on my behalf. 
to the beach the long and wonderful beach. be the reply after a minute of silence. 
to furdurstrandi. i ask tingle from head to foot. 
yes to furdurstrandi he pronounce the word in a new fashion. and i too saw the voice fail. 
do you know what you have say. i shout incautiously. 
he lift his eye fully rouse now no. he snap. i wish you d let a chap go on read. hark to this. 
but othere the old sea captain he neither pause nor stir till the king listen and then once more take up his pen and write down every word. 
and to the king of the saxon in witness of the truth raise his noble head he stretch his brown hand and say behold this walrus tooth. 
by jove what chap those must have be to go sail all over the shop never know where they d fetch the land. hah. 
charlie i plead if you ll only be sensible for a minute or two i ll make our hero in our tale every inch a good a othere. 
umph. longfellow write that poem. i don t care about write thing any more. i want to read. he be thoroughly out of tune now and rag over my own ill luck i leave him. 
conceive yourself at the door of the world s treasure house guard by a child an idle irresponsible child play knuckle bone on whose favor depend the gift of the key and you will imagine one half my torment. till that even charlie have speak nothing that might not lie within the experience of a greek galley slave. but now or there be no virtue in book he have talk of some desperate adventure of the viking of thorfin karlsefne s sail to wineland which be america in the ninth or tenth century. the battle in the harbor he have see. and his own death he have describe. but this be a much more startle plunge into the past. be it possible that he have skip half a dozen life and be then dimly remember some episode of a thousand year late. it be a madden jumble and the bad of it be that charlie mears in his normal condition be the last person in the world to clear it up. i could only wait and watch but i go to bed that night full of the wild imagine. there be nothing that be not possible if charlie s detestable memory only hold good. 
i might rewrite the saga of thorfin karlsefne a it have never be write before might tell the story of the first discovery of america myself the discoverer. but i be entirely at charlie s mercy and so long a there be a three and six penny bohn volume within his reach charlie would not tell. i dare not curse him openly. i hardly dare jog his memory for i be deal with the experience of a thousand year ago tell through the mouth of a boy of to day. and a boy of to day be affect by every change of tone and gust of opinion so that he lie even when he desire to speak the truth. 
i saw no more of him for nearly a week. when next i meet him it be in gracechurch street with a billhook chain to his waist. business take him over london bridge and i accompany him. he be very full of the importance of that book and magnify it. a we pass over the thames we pause to look at a steamer unload great slab of white and brown marble. a barge drift under the steamer s stern and a lonely cow in that barge bellow. charlie s face change from the face of the bank clerk to that of an unknown and though he would not have believe this a much shrewd man. he fling out his arm across the parapet of the bridge and laugh very loudly say. 
when they hear our bull bellow the skroelings run away. 
i wait only for an instant but the barge and the cow have disappear under the bow of the steamer before i answer. 
charlie what do you suppose be skroelings. 
never hear of em before. they sound like a new kind of seagull. what a chap you be for ask question. he reply. i have to go to the cashier of the omnibus company yonder. will you wait for me and we can lunch somewhere together. i ve a notion for a poem. 
no thank. i m off. you re sure you know nothing about skroelings. 
not unless he s be enter for the liverpool handicap. he nod and disappear in the crowd. 
now it be write in the saga of eric the red or that of thorfin karlsefne that nine hundred year ago when karlsefne s galley come to leif s booth which leif have erect in the unknown land call markland which may or may not have be rhode island the skroelings and the lord he know who these may or may not have be come to trade with the viking and run away because they be frighten at the bellow of the cattle which thorfin have bring with him in the ship. but what in the world could a greek slave know of that affair. i wander up and down among the street try to unravel the mystery and the more i consider it the more baffle it grow. one thing only seem certain and that certainty take away my breath for the moment. if i come to full knowledge of anything at all it would not be one life of the soul in charlie mears s body but half a dozen half a dozen several and separate existence spend on blue water in the morning of the world. 
then i walk round the situation. 
obviously if i use my knowledge i should stand alone and unapproachable until all men be a wise a myself. that would be something but manlike i be ungrateful. it seem bitterly unfair that charlie s memory should fail me when i need it most. great power above i look up at them through the fog smoke do the lord of life and death know what this mean to me. nothing le than eternal fame of the best kind that come from one and be share by one alone. i would be content remember clive i stand astound at my own moderation with the mere right to tell one story to work out one little contribution to the light literature of the day. if charlie be permit full recollection for one hour for sixty short minute of existence that have extend over a thousand year i would forego all profit and honor from all that i should make of his speech. i would take no share in the commotion that would follow throughout the particular corner of the earth that call itself the world. the thing should be put forth anonymously. nay i would make other men believe that they have write it. they would hire bull hide self advertise englishman to bellow it abroad. preacher would find a fresh conduct of life upon it swear that it be new and that they have lift the fear of death from all mankind. every orientalist in europe would patronize it discursively with sanskrit and pali text. terrible woman would invent unclean variant of the men s belief for the elevation of their sister. church and religion would war over it. between the hail and re start of an omnibus i foresee the scuffle that would arise among half a dozen denomination all profess the doctrine of the true metempsychosis a apply to the world and the new era. and saw too the respectable english newspaper shy like frighten kine over the beautiful simplicity of the tale. the mind leap forward a hundred two hundred a thousand year. i saw with sorrow that men would mutilate and garble the story. that rival creed would turn it upside down till at last the western world which cling to the dread of death more closely than the hope of life would set it aside a an interest superstition and stampede after some faith so long forget that it seem altogether new. upon this i change the term of the bargain that i would make with the lord of life and death. only let me know let me write the story with sure knowledge that i write the truth and i would burn the manuscript a a solemn sacrifice. five minute after the last line be write i would destroy it all. but i must be allow to write it with absolute certainty. 
there be no answer. the flame color of an aquarium poster catch my eye and i wonder whether it would be wise or prudent to lure charlie into the hand of the professional mesmerist and whether if he be under his power he would speak of his past life. if he do and if people believe him. but charlie would be frighten and fluster or make conceited by the interview. in either case he would begin to lie through fear or vanity. he be safe in my own hand. 
they be very funny fool your english say a voice at my elbow and turn round i recognize a casual acquaintance a young bengali law student call grish chunder whose father have send him to england to become civilize. the old man be a retire native official and on an income of five pound a month contrive to allow his son two hundred pound a year and the run of his teeth in a city where he could pretend to be the cadet of a royal house and tell story of the brutal indian bureaucrat who grind the face of the poor. 
grish chunder be a young fat full body bengali dress with scrupulous care in frock coat tall hat light trouser and tan glove. but i have know him in the day when the brutal indian government pay for his university education and he contribute cheap sedition to sachi durpan_ and intrigue with the wife of his schoolmate. 
that be very funny and very foolish he say nod at the poster. i be go down to the northbrook club. will you come too. 
i walk with him for some time. you be not well he say. what be there in your mind. you do not talk. 
grish chunder you ve be too well educate to believe in a god haven t you. 
oah yes here. but when i go home i must conciliate popular superstition and make ceremony of purification and my woman will anoint idol. 
and hang up tulsi and feast the purohit_ and take you back into caste again and make a good khuttri of you again you advance social free thinker. and you ll eat desi food and like it all from the smell in the courtyard to the mustard oil over you. 
i shall very much like it say grish chunder unguardedly once a hindu always a hindu. but i like to know what the english think they know. 
i ll tell you something that one englishman know. it s an old tale to you. 
i begin to tell the story of charlie in english but grish chunder put a question in the vernacular and the history go forward naturally in the tongue best suit for it tell. after all it could never have be tell in english. grish chunder hear me nod from time to time and then come up to my room where i finish the tale. 
_beshak _ he say philosophically. _lekin darwaza band hai. without doubt but the door be shut. i have hear of this remember of previous existence among my people. it be of course an old tale with u but to happen to an englishman a cow feed malechh an outcast. by jove that be most peculiar. 
outcast yourself grish chunder. you eat cow beef every day. let s think the thing over. the boy remember his incarnation. 
doe he know that. say grish chunder quietly swing his leg a he sit on my table. he be speak in english now. 
he doe not know anything. would i speak to you if he do. go on. 
there be no go on at all. if you tell that to your friend they will say you be mad and put it in the paper. suppose now you prosecute for libel. 
let s leave that out of the question entirely. be there any chance of his be make to speak. 
there be a chance. oah yes. but if he speak it would mean that all this world would end now instanto fall down on your head. these thing be not allow you know. a i say the door be shut. 
not a ghost of a chance. 
how can there be. you be a christian and it be forbid to eat in your book of the tree of life or else you would never die. how shall you all fear death if you all know what your friend doe not know that he know. i be afraid to be kick but i be not afraid to die because i know what i know. you be not afraid to be kick but you be afraid to die. if you be not by god. you english would be all over the shop in an hour upset the balance of power and make commotion. it would not be good. but no fear. he will remember a little and a little le and he will call it dream. then he will forget altogether. when i pass my first art examination in calcutta that be all in the cram book on wordsworth. trail cloud of glory you know. 
this seem to be an exception to the rule. 
there be no exception to rule. some be not so hard look a others but they be all the same when you touch. if this friend of yours say so and so and so and so indicate that he remember all his lose life or one piece of a lose life he would not be in the bank another hour. he would be what you call sack because he be mad and they would send him to an asylum for lunatic. you can see that my friend. 
of course i can but i wasn t think of him. his name need never appear in the story. 
ah. i see. that story will never be write. you can try. 
i be go to. 
for your own credit and for the sake of money of course. 
no. for the sake of write the story. on my honor that will be all. 
even then there be no chance. you cannot play with the god. it be a very pretty story now. a they say let it go on that i mean at that. be quick. he will not last long. 
how do you mean. 
what i say. he ha never so far think about a woman. 
hasn t he though. i remember some of charlie s confidence. 
i mean no woman ha think about him. when that come. bus hogya all up. i know. there be million of woman here. housemaid for instance. 
i wince at the think of my story be ruin by a housemaid. and yet nothing be more probable. 
grish chunder grin. 
yes also pretty girl cousin of his house and perhaps not of his house. one kiss that he give back again and remember will cure all this nonsense or else. 
or else what. remember he doe not know that he know. 
i know that. or else if nothing happen he will become immerse in the trade and the financial speculation like the rest. it must be so. you can see that it must be so. but the woman will come first i think. 
there be a rap at the door and charlie charge in impetuously. he have be release from office and by the look in his eye i could see that he have come over for a long talk. most probably with poem in his pocket. charlie s poem be very weary but sometimes they lead him to talk about the galley. 
grish chunder look at him keenly for a minute. 
i beg your pardon charlie say uneasily. i didn t know you have any one with you. 
i be go say grish chunder. 
he draw me into the lobby a he depart. 
that be your man he say quickly. i tell you he will never speak all you wish. that be rot bosh. but he would be most good to make to see thing. suppose now we pretend that it be only play i have never see grish chunder so excite and pour the ink pool into his hand. eh what do you think. i tell you that he could see anything that a man could see. let me get the ink and the camphor. he be a seer and he will tell u very many thing. 
he may be all you say but i m not go to trust him to your god and devil. 
it will not hurt him. he will only feel a little stupid and dull when he wake up. you have see boy look into the ink pool before. 
that be the reason why i be not go to see it any more. you d good go grish chunder. 
he go declare far down the staircase that it be throw away my only chance of look into the future. 
this leave me unmoved for i be concern for the past and no peer of hypnotize boy into mirror and ink pool would help me to that. but i recognize grish chunder s point of view and sympathize with it. 
what a big black brute that be. say charlie when i return to him. well look here i ve just do a poem. do it instead of play domino after lunch. may i read it. 
let me read it to myself. 
then you miss the proper expression. besides you always make my thing sound a if the rhyme be all wrong. 
read it aloud then. you re like the rest of em. 
charlie mouth me his poem and it be not much bad than the average of his verse. he have be read his book faithfully but he be not please when i tell him that i prefer my longfellow undiluted with charlie. 
then we begin to go through the m. line by line. charlie parry every objection and correction with. 
yes that may be good but you don t catch what i m drive at. 
charles be in one way at least very like one kind of poet. 
there be a pencil scrawl at the back of the paper and what s that. i say. 
oh that s not poetry at all. it s some rot i write last night before i go to bed and it be too much bother to hunt for rhyme. so i make it a sort of blank verse instead. 
here be charlie s blank verse. 
we pull for you when the wind be against u and the sail be low. will you never let u go. 
we eat bread and onion when you take town or run aboard quickly when you be beat back by the foe the captain walk up and down the deck in fair weather sing song but we be below we faint with our chin on the oar and you do not see that we be idle for we still swing to and fro. will you never let u go. 
the salt make the oar bandy like sharkskin. our knee be cut to the bone with salt crack. our hair be stick to our forehead. and our lip be cut to our gum and you whip u because we could not row will you never let u go. 
but in a little time we shall run out of the porthole a the water run along the oarblade and though you tell the others to row after u you will never catch u till you catch the oar thresh and tie up the wind in the belly of the sail. aho. will you never let u go. 
h m. what s oar thresh charlie. 
the water wash up by the oar. that s the sort of song they might sing in the galley y know. aren t you ever go to finish that story and give me some of the profit. 
it depend on yourself. if you have only tell me more about your hero in the first instance it might have be finish by now. you re so hazy in your notion. 
i only want to give you the general notion of it the knock about from place to place and the fight and all that. can t you fill in the rest yourself. make the hero save a girl on a pirate galley and marry her or do something. 
you re a really helpful collaborator. i suppose the hero go through some few adventure before he marry. 
well then make him a very artful card a low sort of man a sort of political man who go about make treaty and break them a black haired chap who hide behind the mast when the fight begin. 
but you say the other day that he be red haired. 
i couldn t have. make him black haired of course. you ve no imagination. 
see that i have just discover the entire principle upon which the half memory falsely call imagination be base i felt entitle to laugh but forbear for the sake of the tale. 
you re right you re the man with imagination. a black haired chap in a deck ship i say. 
no an open ship like a big boat. 
this be madden. 
your ship ha be build and design close and deck in. you say so yourself i protest. 
no no not that ship. that be open or half deck because by jove you re right you make me think of the hero a a red haired chap. of course if he be red the ship would be an open one with paint sail. 
surely i think he would remember now that he have serve in two galley at least in a three deck greek one under the black haired political man and again in a viking s open sea serpent under the man red a a red bear who go to markland. the devil prompt me to speak. 
why of course charlie. say i. 
i don t know. be you make fun of me. 
the current be break for the time be. i take up a notebook and pretend to make many entry in it. 
it s a pleasure to work with an imaginative chap like yourself i say after a pause. the way that you ve bring out the character of the hero be simply wonderful. 
do you think so. he answer with a please flush. i often tell myself that there s more in me than my mo than people think. 
there s an enormous amount in you. 
then win t you let me send an essay on the way of bank clerk to tit bits_ and get the guinea prize. 
that wasn t exactly what i mean old fellow. perhaps it would be good to wait a little and go ahead with the galley story. 
ah but i sha n t get the credit of that. tit bit would publish my name and address if i win. what be you grin at. they would. 
i know it. suppose you go for a walk. i want to look through my note about our story. 
now this reprehensible youth who leave me a little hurt and put back might for aught he or i know have be one of the crew of the argo have be certainly slave or comrade to thorfin karlsefne. therefore he be deeply interest in guinea competition. remember what grish chunder have say i laugh aloud. the lord of life and death would never allow charlie mears to speak with full knowledge of his past and i must even piece out what he have tell me with my own poor invention while charlie write of the way of bank clerk. 
i get together and place on one file all my note. and the net result be not cheer. i read them a second time. there be nothing that might not have be compile at secondhand from other people s book except perhaps the story of the fight in the harbor. the adventure of a viking have be write many time before. the history of a greek galley slave be no new thing and though i write both who could challenge or confirm the accuracy of my detail. i might a well tell a tale of two thousand year hence. the lord of life and death be a cunning a grish chunder have hint. they would allow nothing to escape that might trouble or make easy the mind of men. though i be convince of this yet i could not leave the tale alone. exaltation follow reaction not once but twenty time in the next few week. my mood vary with the march sunlight and fly cloud. by night or in the beauty of a spring morning i perceive that i could write that tale and shift continent thereby. in the wet windy afternoon i saw that the tale might indeed be write but would be nothing more than a fake false varnish sham rust piece of wardour street work at the end. then i bless charlie in many way though it be no fault of his. he seem to be busy with prize competition and i saw le and le of him a the week go by and the earth crack and grow ripe to spring and the bud swell in their sheath. he do not care to read or talk of what he have read and there be a new ring of self assertion in his voice. i hardly care to remind him of the galley when we meet. but charlie allude to it on every occasion always a a story from which money be to be make. 
i think i deserve twenty five per cent. don t i at least he say with beautiful frankness. i supply all the idea didn t i. 
this greediness for silver be a new side in his nature. i assume that it have be develop in the city where charlie be pick up the curious nasal drawl of the underbred city man. 
when the thing s do we ll talk about it. i can t make anything of it at present. red haired or black haired hero be equally difficult. 
he be sit by the fire star at the red coal. i can t understand what you find so difficult. it s all a clear a mud to me he reply. a jet of gas puff out between the bar take light and whistle softly. suppose we take the red haired hero s adventure first from the time that he come south to my galley and capture it and sail to the beach. 
i know good now than to interrupt charlie. i be out of reach of pen and paper and dare not move to get them l i should break the current. the gas jet puff and whinny charlie s voice drop almost to a whisper and he tell a tale of the sail of an open galley to furdurstrandi of sunset on the open sea see under the curve of the one sail even after even when the galley s beak be notch into the centre of the sink disc and we sail by that for we have no other guide quoth charlie. he speak of a land on an island and exploration in it wood where the crew kill three men whom they find asleep under the pine. their ghost charlie say follow the galley swim and choke in the water and the crew cast lot and throw one of their number overboard a a sacrifice to the strange god whom they have offend. then they eat sea weed when their provision fail and their leg swell and their leader the red haired man kill two rower who mutiny and after a year spend among the wood they set sail for their own country and a wind that never fail carry them back so safely that they all sleep at night. this and much more charlie tell. sometimes the voice fell so low that i could not catch the word though every nerve be on the strain he speak of their leader the red haired man a a pagan speak of his god. for it be he who cheer them and slew them impartially a he think best for their need. and it be he who steer them for three day among float ice each floe crowd with strange beast that try to sail with u say charlie and we beat them back with the handle of the oar. 
the gas jet go out a burn coal give way and the fire settle down with a tiny crash to the bottom of the grate. charlie cease speak and i say no word. 
by jove. he say at last shake his head. i ve be star at the fire till i m dizzy. what be i go to say. 
something about the galley. 
i remember now. it s per cent. of the profit isn t it. 
it s anything you like when i ve do the tale. 
i want to be sure of that. i must go now. i ve i ve an appointment. and he leave me. 
have my eye not be hold i might have know that that break mutter over the fire be the swan song of charlie mears. but i think it the prelude to full revelation. at last and at last i should cheat the lord of life and death. 
when next charlie come to me i receive him with rapture. he be nervous and embarrass but his eye be very full of light and his lip a little part. 
i ve do a poem he say. and then quickly. it s the best i ve ever do. read it. he thrust it into my hand and retreat to the window. 
i groan inwardly. it would be the work of half an hour to criticise that be to say praise the poem sufficiently to please charlie. then i have good reason to groan for charlie discard his favorite centipede metre have launch into short and choppy verse and verse with a motive at the back of it. this be what i read. 
the day be most fair the cheery wind halloo behind the hill where he bend the wood a seemeth good and the sapling to his will. riot o wind. there be that in my blood that would not have thee still. 
she give me herself o earth o sky. grey sea she be mine alone. let the sullen boulder hear my cry and rejoice tho they be but stone. 
mine. i have win her o good brown earth make merry. ti hard on spring. make merry. my love be doubly worth all worship your field can bring. let the hind that till you feel my mirth at the early harrow. 
yes it s the early harrow past a doubt i say with a dread at my heart charlie smile but do not answer. 
red cloud of the sunset tell it abroad. i be victor. greet me o sun dominant master and absolute lord over the soul of one. 
well. say charlie look over my shoulder. 
i think it far from well and very evil indeed when he silently lay a photograph on the paper the photograph of a girl with a curly head and a foolish slack mouth. 
isn t it isn t it wonderful. he whisper pink to the tip of his ear wrap in the rosy mystery of first love. i didn t know. i didn t think it come like a thunderclap. 
yes. it come like a thunderclap. be you very happy charlie. 
my god she she love me. he sit down repeat the last word to himself. i look at the hairless face the narrow shoulder already bow by desk work and wonder when where and how he have love in his past life. 
what will your mother say. i ask cheerfully. 
i don t care a damn what she say. 
at twenty the thing for which one doe not care a damn should properly be many but one must not include mother in the list. i tell him this gently. and he describe her even a adam must have describe to the newly name beast the glory and tenderness and beauty of eve. incidentally i learn that she be a tobacconist s assistant with a weakness for pretty dress and have tell him four or five time already that she have never be kiss by a man before. 
charlie speak on and on and on. while i separate from him by thousand of year be consider the beginning of thing. now i understand why the lord of life and death shut the door so carefully behind u. it be that we may not remember our first wooing. be it not so our world would be without inhabitant in a hundred year. 
now about that galley story i say still more cheerfully in a pause in the rush of the speech. 
charlie look up a though he have be hit. the galley what galley. good heaven don t joke man. this be serious. you don t know how serious it be. 
grish chunder be right charlie have taste the love of woman that kill remembrance and the fine story in the world would never be write. 
with the main guard. 
d jungere uhlanen sit round mit open mouth while breitmann tell dem story of fightin in the south. und gif dem moral lesson how before d battle pop take a little prayer to himmel und a goot long drink of schnapps. 
han breitmann s ballad. 
mary mother av mercy fwhat the divil possist u to take an kepe this melancolius counthry. answer me that sorr. 
it be mulvaney who be speak. the time be one o clock of a stifle june night and the place be the main gate of fort amara most desolate and least desirable of all fortress in india. what i be do there at that hour be a question which only concern m grath the sergeant of the guard and the men on the gate. 
slape say mulvaney be a shuparfluous necessity. this gyard ll shtay lively till relieve. he himself be strip to the waist. learoyd on the next bedstead be drip from the skinful of water which ortheris clothe only in white trouser have just sluice over his shoulder. and a fourth private be mutter uneasily a he doze open mouth in the glare of the great guard lantern. the heat under the bricked archway be terrify. 
the worrst night that iv i remimber. eyah. be all hell loose this tide. say mulvaney. a puff of burn wind lash through the wicket gate like a wave of the sea and ortheris swear. 
be ye more heasy jock. he say to learoyd. put yer ead between your leg. it ll go orf in a minute. 
ah don t care. ah would not care but ma heart be plaayin tivvy tivvy on ma rib. let me die. oh leave me die. groan the huge yorkshireman who be feel the heat acutely be of fleshly build. 
the sleeper under the lantern rouse for a moment and raise himself on his elbow die and be damn then. he say. _i_ m damn and i can t die. 
who s that. i whisper for the voice be new to me. 
gentleman bear say mulvaney. corp ril wan year sargint nex. red hot on his c mission but dhrinks like a fish. he ll be go before the cowld weather s here. so. 
he slip his boot and with the naked toe just touch the trigger of his martini. ortheris misunderstand the movement and the next instant the irishman s rifle be dash aside while ortheris stand before him his eye blaze with reproof. 
you. say ortheris. my gawd you. if it be you wot would we do. 
kape quiet little man say mulvaney put him aside but very gently. ti not me nor will ut be me whoile dina shadd s here. i be but showin something. 
learoyd bow on his bedstead groan and the gentleman ranker sigh in his sleep. ortheris take mulvaney s tender pouch and we three smoke gravely for a space while the dust devil dance on the glacis and scour the red hot plain. 
pop. say ortheris wipe his forehead. 
don t tantalize wid talkin av dhrink or i ll shtuff you into your own breech block an fire you off. grunt mulvaney. 
ortheris chuckle and from a niche in the veranda produce six bottle of ginger ale. 
where do ye get ut ye machiavel. say mulvaney. ti no bazar pop. 
ow do hi know wot the orf cer drink. answer ortheris. arst the mess man. 
ye ll have a disthrict coort martial settin on ye yet me son say mulvaney but he open a bottle i will not report ye this time. fwhat s in the mess kid be mint for the belly a they say specially whin that mate be dhrink here s luck. a bloody war or a no we ve get the sickly season. war thin. he wave the innocent pop to the four quarter of heaven. bloody war. north east south an west. jock ye quakin hayrick come an dhrink. 
but learoyd half mad with the fear of death presage in the swell vein of his neck be peg his maker to strike him dead and fight for more air between his prayer. a second time ortheris drench the quiver body with water and the giant revive. 
an ah divn t see thot a mon be i fettle for gooin on to live. an ah divn t see thot there be owt for t livin for. hear now lad. ah m tire tire. there s nobbut watter i ma bone let me die. 
the hollow of the arch give back learoyd s break whisper in a bass boom. mulvaney look at me hopelessly but i remember how the madness of despair have once fall upon ortheris that weary weary afternoon in the bank of the khemi river and how it have be exorcise by the skilful magician mulvaney. 
talk terence. i say or we shall have learoyd sling loose and he ll be bad than ortheris be. talk. he ll answer to your voice. 
almost before ortheris have deftly throw all the rifle of the guard on mulvaney s bedstead the irishman s voice be uplift a that of one in the middle of a story and turn to me he say. 
in barricks or out of it a you say sorr an oirish rig mint be the divil an more. ti only fit for a young man wid eddicated fistesses. oh the crame av disruption be an oirish rig mint an rippin tearin ragin scattherers in the field av war. my first rig mint be oirish faynians an rebils to the heart av their marrow be they an so they fight for the widdy betther than most bein contrairy oirish. they be the black tyrone. you ve hear av thim sorr. 
hear of them. i know the black tyrone for the choice collection of unmitigated blackguard dog stealer robber of hen roost assaulter of innocent citizen and recklessly dare hero in the army list. half europe and half asia ha have cause to know the black tyrone good luck be with their tattered color a glory ha ever be. 
they be hot pickils an ginger. i cut a man s head tu deep wid my belt in the day av my youth an afther some circumstance which i will oblitherate i come to the ould rig mint bearin the character av a man wid hand an foot. but a i be goin to tell you i fell acrost the black tyrone agin wan day whin we want thim powerful bad orth ri me son fwhat be the name av that place where they sint wan comp ny av u an wan av the tyrone roun a hill an down again all for to tache the paythans something they d niver learn before. afther ghuzni twas. 
don t know what the bloomin paythans call it. we call it silver s theayter. you know that sure. 
silver s theatre so twas a gut betune two hill a black a a bucket an a thin a a girl s waist. there be over many paythans for our convaynience in the gut an begad they call thimselves a reserve bein impident by natur. our scotchies an lashins av gurkys be poundin into some paythan rig mint i think twas. scotchies an gurkys be twin bekaze they re so onlike an they get dhrunk together whin god plazes. a i be sayin they sint wan comp ny av the ould an wan av the tyrone to double up the hill an clane out the paythan reserve. orf cer be scarce in thim day fwhat with dysintry an not takin care av thimselves an we be sint out wid only wan orf cer for the comp ny. but he be a man that have his foot beneath him an all his teeth in their sockuts. 
who be he. i ask. 
captain o neil old crook cruikna bulleen him that i tould ye that tale av whin he be in burma. [ ] hah. he be a man. the tyrone tuk a little orf cer bhoy but divil a bite be he in command a i ll dimonstrate presintly. we an they come over the brow av the hill wan on each side av the gut an there be that ondacint reserve waitin down below like rat in a pit. 
[footnote. now first of the foeman of boh da thone be captain o neil of the black tyrone. the ballad of boh da thone. ]. 
howld on men sez crook who tuk a mother s care av u always. rowl some rock on thim by way av visitin kyards. we hadn t rowled more than twinty bowlder an the paythans be beginnin to swear tremenjus whin the little orf cer bhoy av the tyrone shqueaks out acrost the valley. fwhat the devil an all be you doin shpoilin the fun for my men. do ye not see they ll stand. 
faith that s a rare pluckt wan. sez crook. niver mind the rock men. come along down an take tay wid thim. 
there s damn little sugar in ut. sez my rear rank man. but crook hear. 
have ye not all get spoon. he sez laughin an down we wint a fast a we cud. learoyd bein sick at the base he av coorse be not there. 
thot s a lie. say learoyd drag his bedstead near. ah get thot theer an you knaw it mulvaney. he throw up his arm and from the right arm pit run diagonally through the fell of his chest a thin white line terminate near the fourth leave rib. 
my mind s goin say mulvaney the unabashed. ye be there. fwhat i be thinkin of. twas another man av coorse. well you ll remimber thin jock how we an the tyrone meet wid a bang at the bottom an get jam past all movin among the paythans. 
ow. it be a tight ole. i be squeeze till i think i d bloomin well bust say ortheris rub his stomach meditatively. 
twas no place for a little man but wan little man mulvaney put his hand on ortheris s shoulder save the life av me. there we shtuck for divil a bite do the paythans flinch an divil a bite dare we. our business bein to clear em out. an the most exthryordinar thing av all be that we an they just rush into each other s arrums an there be no fire for a long time. nothin but knife an bay nit when we cud get our hand free. an that be not often. we be breast on to thim an the tyrone be yelpin behind av u in a way i didn t see the lean av at first but i know late an so do the paythans. 
knee to knee. sing out crook wid a laugh whin the rush av our comin into the gut shtopped an he be huggin a hairy great paythan neither bein able to do anything to the other tho both be wishful. 
breast to breast. he sez a the tyrone be pushin u forward close an close. 
an hand over back. sez a sargint that be behin. i saw a sword lick out past crook s ear an the paythan be tuk in the apple av his throat like a pig at dromeen fair. 
thank ye brother inner guard sez crook cool a a cucumber widout salt. i want that room. an he wint forward by the thickness av a man s body havin turn the paythan undher him. the man bite the heel off crook s boot in his death bite. 
push men. sez crook. push ye paper back beggar. he sez. be i to pull ye through. so we push an we kick an we swing an we swear an the grass bein slippery our heel wouldn t bite an god help the front rank man that wint down that day. 
ave you ever bin in the pit hentrance o the vic. on a thick night. interrupt ortheris. it be bad nor that for they be goin one way an we wouldn t ave it. leastaways i adn t much to say. 
faith me son ye say ut thin. i kep the little man betune my knee a long a i cud but he be pokin roun wid his bay nit blindin an stiffin feroshus. the devil of a man be orth ri in a ruction aren t ye. say mulvaney. 
don t make game. say the cockney. i know i wasn t no good then but i gev em compot from the lef flank when we open out. no. he say bring down his hand with a thump on the bedstead a bay nit ain t no good to a little man might a well ave a bloomin fishin rod. i eat a clawin maulin mess but gimme a breech that s wear out a bite an hamminition one year in store to let the powder kiss the bullet an put me somewhere where i ain t tread on by ulkin swine like you an s elp me gawd i could bowl you over five time out seven at height undred. would yer try you lumberin hirishman. 
no ye wasp i ve see ye do ut. i say there s nothin good than the bay nit wid a long reach a double twist av ye can an a slow recover. 
dom the bay nit say learoyd who have be listen intently look a here. he pick up a rifle an inch below the foresight with an underhand action and use it exactly a a man would use a dagger. 
sitha say he softly thot s good than owt for a mon can bash t faace wi thot an if he divn t he can breeak t forearm o t gaard ti not i t book though. gie me t butt. 
each doe ut his own way like makin love say mulvaney quietly. the butt or the bay nit or the bullet accordin to the natur av the man. well a i be sayin we shtuck there breathin in each other s face and swearin powerful. orth ri cursin the mother that bore him bekaze he be not three inch tall. 
prisintly he sez. duck ye lump an i can get at a man over your shouldher. 
you ll blow me head off i sez throwin my arm clear. go through under my arm pit ye bloodthirsty little scutt sez i but don t shtick me or i ll wring your ear round. 
fwhat be ut ye give the paythan man for ninst me him that cut at me whin i cudn t move hand or foot. hot or cowld be ut. 
cold say ortheris up an under the rib jint. e come down flat. best for you e do. 
thrue my son. this jam thing that i m talkin about last for five minute good an thin we get our arm clear an wint in. i misremimber exactly fwhat i do but i didn t want dinah to be a widdy at the dept. thin after some promishkuous hackin we shtuck again an the tyrone behin be callin u dog an coward an all manner av name. we barrin their way. 
fwhat ail the tyrone. think i. they ve the makin s av a most convanient fight here. 
a man behind me sez beseechful an in a whisper. let me get at thim. for the love av mary give me room beside ye ye tall man. 
an who be you that s so anxious to be kilt. sez i widout turnin my head for the long knife be dancin in front like the sun on donegal bay whin ut s rough. 
we ve see our dead he sez squeezin into me. our dead that be men two day go. an me that be his cousin by blood could not bring tim coulan off. let me get on he sez let me get to thim or i ll run ye through the back. 
my troth think i if the tyrone have see their dead god help the paythans this day. an thin i know why the oirish be ragin behind u a they be. 
i give room to the man an he run forward wid the haymaker s lift on his bay nit an swing a paythan clear off his foot by the belly band av the brute an the iron bruk at the lockin ring. 
tim coulan ll slape easy to night sez he wid a grin. an the next minut his head be in two half and he wint down grinnin by section. 
the tyrone be pushin an pushin in an our men be swearin at thim an crook be workin away in front av u all his sword arm swingin like a pump handle an his revolver spittin like a cat. but the strange thing av ut be the quiet that lay upon. twas like a fight in a drame except for thim that be dead. 
whin i give room to the oirishman i be expinded an forlorn in my inside. ti a way i have savin your presince sorr in action. let me out bhoys sez i backin in among thim. i m goin to be onwell. faith they give me room at the wurrud though they would not ha give room for all hell wid the chill off. when i get clear i be savin your presince sorr outragis sick bekaze i have dhrunk heavy that day. 
well an far out av harm be a sargint av the tyrone sittin on the little orf cer bhoy who have stop crook from rowlin the rock. oh he be a beautiful bhoy an the long black curse be slidin out av his innocint mouth like mornin jew from a rise. 
fwhat have you get there. sez i to the sargint. 
wan av her majesty s bantam wid his spur up sez he. he s goin to coort martial me. 
let me go. sez the little orf cer bhoy. let me go and command my men. manin thereby the black tyrone which be beyond any command ay even av they have make the divil a field orf cer. 
his father howlds my mother s cow fee in clonmel sez the man that be sittin on him. will i go back to his mother an tell her that i ve let him throw himself away. lie still ye little pinch av dynamite an coort martial me aftherward. 
good sez i. ti the like av him make the like av the commandher in chief but we must presarve thim. fwhat d you want to do sorr. sez i very politeful. 
kill the beggar kill the beggar. he shqueaks. his big blue eye brimmin wid tear. 
an how ll ye do that. sez i. you ve shquibbed off your revolver like a child wid a cracker. you can make no play wid that fine large sword av yours. an your hand s shakin like an asp on a leaf. lie still an grow sez i. 
get back to your comp ny sez he. you re insolint. 
all in good time sez i but i ll have a dhrink first. 
just thin crook come up blue an white all over where he wasn t red. 
wather. sez he. i m dead wid drouth. oh but it s a gran day. 
he dhrank half a skinful and the rest he tilt into his chest an it fair hiss on the hairy hide av him. he see the little orf cer bhoy undher the sargint. 
fwhat s yonder. sez he. 
mutiny sorr sez the sargint an the orf cer bhoy begin pleadin pitiful to crook to be let go. but divil a bite wud crook budge. 
kape him there he sez ti no child s work this day. by the same token sez he i ll confishcate that iligant nickel plat scent sprinkler av yours for my own ha be vomitin dishgraceful. 
the fork av his hand be black wid the backspit av the machine. so he tuk the orf cer bhoy s revolver. ye may look sorr but by my faith there s a dale more do in the field than iv get into field ordhers. 
come on mulvaney sez crook. be this a coort martial. the two av u wint back together into the mess an the paythans be still standin up. they be not too impart nint though for the tyrone be callin wan to another to remimber tim coulan. 
crook stop outside av the strife an look anxious his eye rowlin roun. 
fwhat be ut sorr. sez i. can i get ye anything. 
where s a bugler. sez he. 
i wint into the crowd our men be dhrawin breath behin the tyrone who be fightin like sowls in tormint an prisintly i come acrost little frehan our bugler bhoy pokin roun among the best wid a rifle an bay nit. 
be amusin yoursilf fwhat you re pay for ye limb. sez i catchin him by the scruff. come out av that an attind to your duty. i sez. but the bhoy be not please. 
i ve get wan sez he grinnin big a you mulvaney an fair half a ugly. let me go get another. 
i be dishpleased at the personability av that remark so i tuck him under my arm an carry him to crook who be watchin how the fight wint. crook cuff him till the bhoy cry an thin sez nothin for a whoile. 
the paythans begin to flicker onaisy an our men roar. opin ordher. double. sez crook. blow child blow for the honor av the british arrmy. 
that bhoy blow like a typhoon an the tyrone an we opine out a the paythans break an i saw that fwhat have go before wud be kissin an huggin to fwhat be to come. we d dhruv thim into a broad part av the gut whin they give an thin we opine out an fair dance down the valley dhrivin thim before u. oh twas lovely an stiddy too. there be the sargints on the flank av what be leave av u kapin touch an the fire be runnin from flank to flank an the paythans be dhroppin. we opine out wid the widenin av the valley an whin the valley narrow we close again like the shtick on a lady s fan an at the far ind av the gut where they thried to stand we fair blow them off their foot for we have expinded very little ammunition by reason av the knife work. 
hi use thirty round goin down that valley say ortheris an it be gentleman s work. might a do it in a white andkerchief an pink silk stockin s that part. hi be on in that piece. 
you could ha hear the tyrone yellin a mile away say mulvaney an twas all their sargints cud do to get thim off. they be mad mad mad. crook sit down in the quiet that fell whin we have go down the valley an cover his face wid his hand. prisintly we all come back again accordin to our nature and disposishins for they mark you show through the hide av a man in that hour. 
bhoys. bhoys. sez crook to himself. i misdoubt we could ha engage at long range an save betther men than me. he look at our dead an say no more. 
captain dear sez a man av the tyrone comin up wid his mouth big than iv his mother kiss ut spittin blood like a whale. captain dear sez he if wan or two in the shtalls have be discommode the gallery have enjoy the performinces av a roshus. 
thin i know that man for the dublin dockrat he be wan av the bhoys that make the lessee av silver s theatre grey before his time wid tearin out the bowils av the bench an t rowin thim into the pit. so i pass the wurrud that i know when i be in the tyrone an we lay in dublin. i don t know who twas i whisper an i don t care but anyways i ll knock the face av you tim kelly. 
eyah. sez the man be you there too. we ll call ut silver s theatre. half the tyrone knowin the ould place tuk ut up. so we call ut silver s theatre. 
the little orf cer bhoy av the tyrone be thremblin an cryin he have no heart for the coort martial that he talk so big upon. ye ll do well late sez crook very quiet for not bein allow to kill yourself for amusemint. 
i m a dishgraced man. sez the little orf cer bhoy. 
put me undher arrest sorr if you will but by my sowl i d do ut again sooner than face your mother wid you dead sez the sargint that have sit on his head standin to attention an salutin. but the young wan only cry a tho his little heart be breakin. 
thin another man av the tyrone come up wid the fog av fightin on him. 
the what mulvaney. 
fog av fightin. you know sorr that like makin love ut take each man diff rint. now i can t help bein powerful sick whin i m in action. orth ri here niver stop swearin from ind to ind an the only time that learoyd opins his mouth to sing be whin he be messin wid other people s head. for he s a dhirty fighter be jock. recruities sometime cry an sometime they don t know fwhat they do an sometime they be all for cuttin throat an such like dirtiness. but some men get heavy dead dhrunk on the fightin. this man be. he be staggerin an his eye be half shut an we cud hear him dhraw breath twinty yard away. he see the little orf cer bhoy an come up talkin thick an drowsy to himsilf. blood the young whelp. he sez. blood the young whelp. an wid that he throw up his arm shpun roun an drop at our foot dead a a paythan an there be niver sign or scratch on him. they say twas his heart be rotten but oh twas a quare thing to see. 
thin we wint to bury our dead for we wud not lave thim to the paythans an in movin among the haythen we nearly lose that little orf cer bhoy. he be for givin wan divil wather and layin him aisy against a rock. be careful sorr sez i. a wound paythan s bad than a live wan. my troth before the word be out of my mouth the man on the grind fire at the orf cer bhoy lanin over him an i saw the helmit fly. i drop the butt on the face av the man an tuk his pistol. the little orf cer bhoy turn very white for the hair av half his head be sing away. 
i tould you so sorr. sez i. an afther that whin he want to help a paythan i stud wid the muzzle contagious to the ear. they dare not do anythin but curse. the tyrone be growlin like dog over a bone that have be take away too soon for they have see their dead an they want to kill ivry sowl on the grind. crook tould thim that he d blow the hide off any man that misconduct himself. but see that ut be the first time the tyrone have iv see their dead i do not wondher they be on the sharp. ti a shameful sight. whin i first saw ut i wud niver ha give quarter to any man north of the khaibar no nor woman either for the woman use to come out afther dhark auggrh. 
well evenshually we bury our dead an tuk away our wound an come over the brow av the hill to see the scotchies an the gurkys take tay with the paythans in bucketsfuls. we be a gang av dissolute ruffian for the blood have cake the dust an the sweat have cut the cake an our bay nit be hangin like butcher steel betune ur leg an most av u be mark one way or another. 
a staff orf cer man clean a a new rifle ride up an sez. what damn scarecrow be you. 
a comp ny av her majesty s black tyrone an wan av the ould rig mint sez crook very quiet givin our visitor the flure a twas. 
oh. sez the staff orf cer. do you dislodge that reserve. 
no. sez crook an the tyrone laugh. 
thin fwhat the divil have ye do. 
disthroyed ut sez crook an he take u on but not before toomey that be in the tyrone sez aloud his voice somewhere in his stummick. fwhat in the name av misfortune doe this parrit widout a tail mane by shtoppin the road av his betthers. 
the staff orf cer wint blue an toomey make him pink by changin to the voice av a minowderin woman an sayin. come an kiss me major dear for me husband s at the war an i m all alone at the depot. 
the staff orf cer wint away an i cud see crook s shoulthers shakin. 
his corp ril check toomey. lave me alone sez toomey widout a wink. i be his batman before he be marry an he know fwhat i mane av you don t. there s nothin like livin in the hoight av society. d you remimber that orth ri. 
hi do. toomey e die in orspital next week it be cause i buy arf his kit. an i remember after that. 
guarrd turn out. 
the relief have come. it be four o clock. i ll catch a kyart for you sorr say mulvaney dive hastily into his accoutrement. come up to the top av the fort an we ll pershue our invistigations into m grath s shtable. the relieve guard stroll round the main bastion on it way to the swim bath and learoyd grow almost talkative. ortheris look into the fort ditch and across the plain. ho. it s weary waitin for ma ary. he hum. but i d like to kill some more bloomin paythans before my time s up. war. bloody war. north east south and west. 
amen say learoyd slowly. 
fwhat s here. say mulvaney check at a blurr of white by the foot of the old sentry box. he stoop and touch it. it s norah norah m taggart. why nonie darlin fwhat be ye doin out av your mother s bed at this time. 
the two year old child of sergeant m taggart must have wander for a breath of cool air to the very verge of the parapet of the fort ditch her tiny night shift be gather into a wisp round her neck and she moan in her sleep. see there. say mulvaney. poor lamb. look at the heat rash on the innocint skin av her. ti hard crool hard even for u. fwhat must it be for these. wake up nonie your mother will be woild about you. begad the child might ha fall into the ditch. 
he pick her up in the grow light and set her on his shoulder and her fair curl touch the grizzle stubble of his temple. ortheris and learoyd follow snap their finger while norah smile at them a sleepy smile. then carol mulvaney clear a a lark dance the baby on his arm. 
if any young man should marry you say nothin about the joke. that iv ye slep in a sinthry box wrap up in a soldier s cloak. 
though on my sowl nonie he say gravely there be not much cloak about you. niver mind you win t dhress like this ten year to come. kiss your friend an run along to your mother. 
nonie set down close to the marry quarter nod with the quiet obedience of the soldier s child but ere she patter off over the flag path hold up her lip to be kiss by the three musketeer. ortheris wipe his mouth with the back of his hand and swear sentimentally. learoyd turn pink. and the two walk away together. the yorkshireman lift up his voice and give in thunder the chorus of the sentry box_ while ortheris pip at his side. 
bin to a bloomin sing song you two. say the artilleryman who be take his cartridge down to the morning gun you re over merry for these dash day. 
i bid ye take care o the brat say he for it come of a noble race. 
learoyd bellow. the voice die out in the swim bath. 
oh terence. i say drop into mulvaney s speech when we be alone it s you that have the tongue. 
he look at me wearily. his eye be sink in his head and his face be draw and white eyah. say he. i ve blandandhered thim through the night somehow but can thim that help others help thimselves. answer me that sorr. 
and over the bastion of fort amara break the pitiless day. 
wee willie winkie. 
an officer and a gentleman. 
his full name be percival william williams but he pick up the other name in a nursery book and that be the end of the christen title. his mother s ayah call him willie baba_ but a he never pay the faint attention to anything that the ayah say her wisdom do not help matter. 
his father be the colonel of the th and a soon a wee willie winkie be old enough to understand what military discipline mean colonel williams put him under it. there be no other way of manage the child. when he be good for a week he draw good conduct pay. and when he be bad he be deprive of his good conduct stripe. generally he be bad for india offer so many chance to little six year old of go wrong. 
child resent familiarity from stranger and wee willie winkie be a very particular child. once he accept an acquaintance he be graciously please to thaw. he accept brandis a subaltern of the th on sight. brandis be have tea at the colonel s and wee willie winkie enter strong in the possession of a good conduct badge win for not chase the hen round the compound. he regard brandis with gravity for at least ten minute and then deliver himself of his opinion. 
i like you say he slowly get off his chair and come over to brandis. i like you. i shall call you coppy because of your hair. do you mind be call coppy. it be because of ve hair you know. 
here be one of the most embarrass of wee willie winkie s peculiarity. he would look at a strange for some time and then without warn or explanation would give him a name. and the name stick. no regimental penalty could break wee willie winkie of this habit. he lose his good conduct badge for christen the commissioner s wife pob. but nothing that the colonel could do make the station forego the nickname and mr. collen remain mr. pob till the end of her stay. so brandis be christen coppy and rise therefore in the estimation of the regiment. 
if wee willie winkie take an interest in any one the fortunate man be envy alike by the mess and the rank and file. and in their envy lay no suspicion of self interest. the colonel s son be idolize on his own merit entirely. yet wee willie winkie be not lovely. his face be permanently freckle a his leg be permanently scratch and in spite of his mother s almost tearful remonstrance he have insist upon have his long yellow lock cut short in the military fashion. i want my hair like sergeant tummil s say wee willie winkie and his father abet the sacrifice be accomplish. 
three week after the bestowal of his youthful affection on lieutenant brandis henceforward to be call coppy for the sake of brevity wee willie winkie be destine to behold strange thing and far beyond his comprehension. 
coppy return his like with interest. coppy have let him wear for five rapturous minute his own big sword just a tall a wee willie winkie. coppy have promise him a terrier puppy. and coppy have permit him to witness the miraculous operation of shave. nay more coppy have say that even he wee willie winkie would rise in time to the ownership of a box of shiny knife a silver soap box and a silver handle sputter brush a wee willie winkie call it. decidedly there be no one except his father who could give or take away good conduct badge at pleasure half so wise strong and valiant a coppy with the afghan and egyptian medal on his breast. why then should coppy be guilty of the unmanly weakness of kiss vehemently kiss a big girl miss allardyce to wit. in the course of a morning ride wee willie winkie have see coppy so do and like the gentleman he be have promptly wheel round and canter back to his groom l the groom should also see. 
under ordinary circumstance he would have speak to his father but he felt instinctively that this be a matter on which coppy ought first to be consult. 
coppy shout wee willie winkie rein up outside that subaltern s bungalow early one morning i want to see you coppy. 
come in young un return coppy who be at early breakfast in the midst of his dog. what mischief have you be get into now. 
wee willie winkie have do nothing notoriously bad for three day and so stand on a pinnacle of virtue. 
i ve be do nothing bad say he curl himself into a long chair with a studious affectation of the colonel s languor after a hot parade. he bury his freckle nose in a tea cup and with eye star roundly over the rim ask. i say coppy be it pwoper to kiss big girl. 
by jove. you re begin early. who do you want to kiss. 
no one. my muvver s always kiss me if i don t stop her. if it isn t pwoper how be you kiss major allardyce s big girl last morning by ve canal. 
coppy s brow wrinkle. he and miss allardyce have with great craft manage to keep their engagement secret for a fortnight. there be urgent and imperative reason why major allardyce should not know how matter stand for at least another month and this small marplot have discover a great deal too much. 
i saw you say wee willie winkie calmly. but ve groom didn t see. i say hut jao. 
oh you have that much sense you young rip groan poor coppy half amuse and half angry. and how many people may you have tell about it. 
only me myself. you didn t tell when i twied to wide ve buffalo ven my pony be lame. and i fight you wouldn t like. 
winkie say coppy enthusiastically shake the small hand you re the best of good fellow. look here you can t understand all these thing. one of these day hang it how can i make you see it. i m go to marry miss allardyce and then she ll be mr. coppy a you say. if your young mind be so scandalize at the idea of kiss big girl go and tell your father. 
what will happen. say wee willie winkie who firmly believe that his father be omnipotent. 
i shall get into trouble. say coppy play his trump card with an appeal look at the holder of the ace. 
ven i win t say wee willie winkie briefly. but my faver say it s un man ly to be always kiss and i didn t fink you d do vat coppy. 
i m not always kiss old chap. it s only now and then and when you re big you ll do it too. your father mean it s not good for little boy. 
ah. say wee willie winkie now fully enlighten. it s like ve sputter brush. 
exactly say coppy gravely. 
but i don t fink i ll ever want to kiss big girl nor no one cept my muvver. and i must vat you know. 
there be a long pause break by wee willie winkie. 
be you fond of vi big girl coppy. 
awfully. say coppy. 
fond van you be of bell or ve butcha or me. 
it s in a different way say coppy. you see one of these day miss allardyce will belong to me but you ll grow up and command the regiment and all sort of thing. it s quite different you see. 
very well say wee willie winkie rise. if you re fond of ve big girl i win t tell any one. i must go now. 
coppy rise and escort his small guest to the door add. you re the best of little fellow winkie. i tell you what. in thirty day from now you can tell if you like tell any one you like. 
thus the secret of the brandis allardyce engagement be dependent on a little child s word. coppy who know wee willie winkie s idea of truth be at ease for he felt that he would not break promise. wee willie winkie betray a special and unusual interest in miss allardyce and slowly revolve round that embarrass young lady be use to regard her gravely with unwinking eye. he be try to discover why coppy should have kiss her. she be not half so nice a his own mother. on the other hand she be coppy s property and would in time belong to him. therefore it behoove him to treat her with a much respect a coppy s big sword or shiny pistol. 
the idea that he share a great secret in common with coppy keep wee willie winkie unusually virtuous for three week. then the old adam break out and he make what he call a camp fire at the bottom of the garden. how could he have foresee that the fly spark would have light the colonel s little hayrick and consume a week s store for the horse. sudden and swift be the punishment deprivation of the good conduct badge and most sorrowful of all two day confinement to barrack the house and veranda couple with the withdrawal of the light of his father s countenance. 
he take the sentence like the man he strive to be draw himself up with a quiver under lip salute and once clear of the room run to weep bitterly in his nursery call by him my quarter coppy come in the afternoon and attempt to console the culprit. 
i m under awwest say wee willie winkie mournfully and i didn t ought to speak to you. 
very early the next morning he climb on to the roof of the house that be not forbid and behold miss allardyce go for a ride. 
where be you go. cry wee willie winkie. 
across the river she answer and trot forward. 
now the cantonment in which the th lay be bound on the north by a river dry in the winter. from his early year wee willie winkie have be forbid to go across the river and have note that even coppy the almost almighty coppy have never set foot beyond it. wee willie winkie have once be read to out of a big blue book the history of the princess and the goblin a most wonderful tale of a land where the goblin be always war with the child of men until they be defeat by one curdie. ever since that date it seem to him that the bare black and purple hill across the river be inhabit by goblin and in truth every one have say that there live the bad men. even in his own house the low half of the window be cover with green paper on account of the bad men who might if allow clear view fire into peaceful draw room and comfortable bedroom. certainly beyond the river which be the end of all the earth live the bad men. and here be major allardyce s big girl coppy s property prepare to venture into their border. what would coppy say if anything happen to her. if the goblin run off with her a they do with curdie s princess. she must at all hazard be turn back. 
the house be still. wee willie winkie reflect for a moment on the very terrible wrath of his father. and then break his arrest. it be a crime unspeakable. the low sun throw his shadow very large and very black on the trim garden path a he go down to the stable and order his pony. it seem to him in the hush of the dawn that all the big world have be bid to stand still and look at wee willie winkie guilty of mutiny. the drowsy groom hand him his mount and since the one great sin make all others insignificant wee willie winkie say that he be go to ride over to coppy sahib and go out at a foot pace step on the soft mould of the flower border. 
the devastate track of the pony s foot be the last misdeed that cut him off from all sympathy of humanity he turn into the road lean forward. and ride a fast a the pony could put foot to the grind in the direction of the river. 
but the lively of twelve two pony can do little against the long canter of a waler. miss allardyce be far ahead have pass through the crop beyond the police post when all the guard be asleep and her mount be scatter the pebble of the river bed a wee willie winkie leave the cantonment and british india behind him. bow forward and still flog wee willie winkie shoot into afghan territory and could just see miss allardyce a black speck flicker across the stony plain. the reason of her wander be simple enough. coppy in a tone of too hastily assume authority have tell her over night that she must not ride out by the river. and she have go to prove her own spirit and teach coppy a lesson. 
almost at the foot of the inhospitable hill wee willie winkie saw the waler blunder and come down heavily. miss allardyce struggle clear but her ankle have be severely twist and she could not stand. have thus demonstrate her spirit she weep copiously and be surprise by the apparition of a white wide eye child in khaki on a nearly spend pony. 
be you badly badly hurt. shout wee willie winkie a soon a he be within range. you didn t ought to be here. 
i don t know say miss allardyce ruefully ignore the reproof. good gracious child what be you do here. 
you say you be go acwoss ve wiver pant wee willie winkie throw himself off his pony. and nobody not even coppy must go acwoss ve wiver and i come after you ever so hard but you wouldn t stop and now you ve hurt yourself and coppy will be angwy wiv me and i ve bwoken my awwest. i ve bwoken my awwest. 
the future colonel of the th sit down and sob. in spite of the pain in her ankle the girl be move. 
have you ride all the way from cantonment little man. what for. 
you belong to coppy. coppy tell me so. wail wee willie winkie disconsolately. i saw him kiss you and he say he be fond of you van bell or ve butcha or me. and so i come. you must get up and come back. you didn t ought to be here. vi be a bad place and i ve bwoken my awwest. 
i can t move winkie say miss allardyce with a groan. i ve hurt my foot. what shall i do. 
she show a readiness to weep afresh which steady wee willie winkie who have be bring up to believe that tear be the depth of unmanliness. still when one be a great a sinner a wee willie winkie even a man may be permit to break down. 
winkie say miss allardyce when you ve rest a little ride back and tell them to send out something to carry me back in. it hurt fearfully. 
the child sit still for a little time and miss allardyce close her eye. the pain be nearly make her faint. she be rouse by wee willie winkie tie up the rein on his pony s neck and set it free with a vicious cut of his whip that make it whicker. the little animal head toward the cantonment. 
oh winkie. what be you do. 
hush. say wee willie winkie. vere s a man come one of ve bad men. i must stay wiv you. my faver say a man must always look after a girl. jack will go home and ven vey ll come and look for u. vat s why i let him go. 
not one man but two or three have appear from behind the rock of the hill and the heart of wee willie winkie sink within him for just in this manner be the goblin wont to steal out and vex curdie s soul. thus have they play in curdie s garden he have see the picture and thus have they frighten the princess s nurse. he hear them talk to each other and recognize with joy the bastard pushto that he have pick up from one of his father s groom lately dismiss. people who speak that tongue could not be the bad men. they be only native after all. 
they come up to the bowlder on which miss allardyce s horse have blunder. 
then rise from the rock wee willie winkie child of the dominant race age six and three quarter and say briefly and emphatically _jao. the pony have cross the river bed. 
the men laugh and laughter from native be the one thing wee willie winkie could not tolerate. he ask them what they want and why they do not depart. other men with most evil face and crook stock gun creep out of the shadow of the hill till soon wee willie winkie be face to face with an audience some twenty strong miss allardyce scream. 
who be you. say one of the men. 
i be the colonel sahib s son and my order be that you go at once. you black men be frighten the miss sahib. one of you must run into cantonment and take the news that miss sahib ha hurt herself and that the colonel s son be here with her. 
put our foot into the trap. be the laugh reply. hear this boy s speech. 
say that i send you i the colonel s son. they will give you money. 
what be the use of this talk. take up the child and the girl and we can at least ask for the ransom. ours be the village on the height say a voice in the background. 
these be the bad men bad than goblin and it need all wee willie winkie s train to prevent him from burst into tear. but he felt that to cry before a native except only his mother s ayah_ would be an infamy great than any mutiny. moreover he a future colonel of the th have that grim regiment at his back. 
be you go to carry u away. say wee willie winkie very blanch and uncomfortable. 
yes my little sahib bahadur_ say the tall of the men and eat you afterward. 
that be child s talk say wee willie winkie. men do not eat men. 
a yell of laughter interrupt him but he go on firmly and if you do carry u away i tell you that all my regiment will come up in a day and kill you all without leave one. who will take my message to the colonel sahib. 
speech in any vernacular and wee willie winkie have a colloquial acquaintance with three be easy to the boy who could not yet manage his r s and th s aright. 
another man join the conference cry. o foolish men. what this babe say be true. he be the heart s heart of those white troop. for the sake of peace let them go both for if he be take the regiment will break loose and gut the valley. our village be in the valley and we shall not escape. that regiment be devil. they break khoda yar s breast bone with kick when he try to take the rifle. and if we touch this child they will fire and rape and plunder for a month till nothing remain. good to send a man back to take the message and get a reward. i say that this child be their god and that they will spare none of u nor our woman if we harm him. 
it be din mahommed the dismiss groom of the colonel who make the diversion and an angry and heat discussion follow. wee willie winkie stand over miss allardyce wait the upshot. surely his wegiment his own wegiment would not desert him if they know of his extremity. 
* * * * *. 
the riderless pony bring the news to the th though there have be consternation in the colonel s household for an hour before. the little beast come in through the parade grind in front of the main barrack where the men be settle down to play spoil five till the afternoon. devlin the color sergeant of e company glance at the empty saddle and tumble through the barrack room kick up each room corporal a he pass. up ye beggar. there s something happen to the colonel s son he shout. 
he couldn t fall off. s elp me e couldn t fall off blubber a drummer boy go an hunt acrost the river. he s over there if he s anywhere an maybe those pathan have get im. for the love o gawd don t look for im in the nullah. let s go over the river. 
there s sense in mott yet say devlin. e company double out to the river sharp. 
so e company in it shirt sleeve mainly double for the dear life and in the rear toil the perspire sergeant adjure it to double yet fast. the cantonment be alive with the men of the th hunt for wee willie winkie and the colonel finally overtake e company far too exhaust to swear struggle in the pebble of the river bed. 
up the hill under which wee willie winkie s bad men be discuss the wisdom of carry off the child and the girl a look out fire two shot. 
what have i say. shout din mahommed. there be the warn. the pulton be out already and be come across the plain. get away. let u not be see with the boy. 
the men wait for an instant and then a another shoot be fire withdraw into the hill silently a they have appear. 
the wegiment be come say wee willie winkie confidently to miss allardyce and it s all wight. don t cwy. 
he need the advice himself for ten minute late when his father come up he be weep bitterly with his head in miss allardyce s lap. 
and the men of the th carry him home with shout and rejoicing. and coppy who have ride a horse into a lather meet him and to his intense disgust kiss him openly in the presence of the men. 
but there be balm for his dignity. his father assure him that not only would the break of arrest be condone but that the good conduct badge would be restore a soon a his mother could sew it on his blouse sleeve. miss allardyce have tell the colonel a story that make him proud of his son. 
she belong to you coppy say wee willie winkie indicate miss allardyce with a grimy forefinger. i know she didn t ought to go acwoss ve wiver and i know ve wegiment would come to me if i send jack home. 
you re a hero winkie say coppy a pukka hero. 
i don t know what vat mean say wee willie winkie but you mustn t call me winkie any no more i m percival will be will am. 
and in this manner do wee willie winkie enter into his manhood. 
the rout of the white hussar. 
it be not in the open fight we throw away the sword but in the lonely watch in the darkness by the ford. the water lap the night wind blow full arm the fear be bear and grow. and we be fly ere we know from panic in the night. beoni bar>/i>. 
some people hold that an english cavalry regiment cannot run. this be a mistake. i have see four hundred and thirty seven sabre fly over the face of the country in abject terror have see the best regiment that ever draw bridle wipe off the army list for the space of two hour. if you repeat this tale to the white hussar they will in all probability treat you severely. they be not proud of the incident. 
you may know the white hussar by their side which be great than that of all the cavalry regiment on the roster. if this be not a sufficient mark you may know them by their old brandy. it ha be sixty year in the mess and be worth go far to taste. ask for the mcgaire old brandy and see that you get it. if the mess sergeant think that you be uneducated and that the genuine article will be lose on you he will treat you accordingly. he be a good man. but when you be at mess you must never talk to your host about force march or long distance ride. the mess be very sensitive. and if they think that you be laugh at them will tell you so. 
a the white hussar say it be all the colonel s fault. he be a new man and he ought never to have take the command. he say that the regiment be not smart enough. this to the white hussar who know that they could walk round any horse and through any gun and over any foot on the face of the earth. that insult be the first cause of offence. 
then the colonel cast the drum horse the drum horse of the white hussar. perhaps you do not see what an unspeakable crime he have commit. i will try to make it clear. the soul of the regiment life in the drum horse who carry the silver kettle drum. he be nearly always a big piebald waler. that be a point of honor. and a regiment will spend anything you please on a piebald. he be beyond the ordinary law of cast. his work be very light and he only manoeuvre at a foot pace. wherefore so long a he can step out and look handsome his well be be assure. he know more about the regiment than the adjutant and could not make a mistake if he try. 
the drum horse of the white hussar be only eighteen year old and perfectly equal to his duty. he have at least six year more work in him and carry himself with all the pomp and dignity of a drum major of the guard. the regiment have pay r. for him. 
but the colonel say that he must go and he be cast in due form and replace by a washy bay beast a ugly a a mule with a ewe neck rat tail and cow hock. the drummer detest that animal and the best of the band horse put back their ear and show the white of their eye at the very sight of him. they know him for an upstart and no gentleman. i fancy that the colonel s idea of smartness extend to the band and that he want to make it take part in the regular parade movement. a cavalry band be a sacred thing. it only turn out for command officer parade and the band master be one degree more important than the colonel. he be a high priest and the keel row be his holy song. the keel row be the cavalry trot. and the man who ha never hear that tune rise high and shrill above the rattle of the regiment go past the salute base ha something yet to hear and understand. 
when the colonel cast the drum horse of the white hussar there be nearly a mutiny. 
the officer be angry the regiment be furious and the bandsman swear like trooper. the drum horse be go to be put up to auction public auction to be buy perhaps by a parsee and put into a cart. it be bad than expose the inner life of the regiment to the whole world or sell the mess plate to a jew a black jew. 
the colonel be a mean man and a bully. he know what the regiment think about his action. and when the trooper offer to buy the drum horse he say that their offer be mutinous and forbid by the regulation. 
but one of the subaltern hogan yale an irishman buy the drum horse for r. at the sale and the colonel be wroth. yale profess repentance he be unnaturally submissive and say that a he have only make the purchase to save the horse from possible ill treatment and starvation he would now shoot him and end the business. this appear to soothe the colonel for he want the drum horse dispose of. he felt that he have make a mistake and could not of course acknowledge it. meantime the presence of the drum horse be an annoyance to him. 
yale take to himself a glass of the old brandy three cheroot and his friend martyn. and they all leave the mess together. yale and martyn confer for two hour in yale s quarter. but only the bull terrier who keep watch over yale s boot tree know what they say. a horse hood and sheet to his ear leave yale s stable and be take very unwillingly into the civil line. yale s groom go with him. two men break into the regimental theatre and take several paint pot and some large scenery brush. then night fell over the cantonment and there be a noise a of a horse kick his loose box to piece in yale s stable. yale have a big old white waler trap horse. 
the next day be a thursday and the men hear that yale be go to shoot the drum horse in the even determine to give the beast a regular regimental funeral a fine one than they would have give the colonel have he die just then. they get a bullock cart and some sack and mound and mound of rose and the body under sack be carry out to the place where the anthrax case be cremate. two third of the regiment follow. there be no band but they all sing the place where the old horse die a something respectful and appropriate to the occasion. when the corpse be dump into the grave and the men begin throw down armful of rose to cover it the farrier sergeant rip out an oath and say aloud why it ain t the drum horse any more than it s me. the troop sergeant major ask him whether he have leave his head in the canteen. the farrier sergeant say that he know the drum horse s foot a well a he know his own. but he be silence when he saw the regimental number burn in on the poor stiff upturned near fore. 
thus be the drum horse of the white hussar bury. the farrier sergeant grumble. the sack that cover the corpse be smear in place with black paint. and the farrier sergeant draw attention to this fact. but the troop sergeant major of e troop kick him severely on the shin and tell him that he be undoubtedly drink. 
on the monday follow the burial the colonel seek revenge on the white hussar. unfortunately be at that time temporarily in command of the station he order a brigade field day. he say that he wish to make the regiment sweat for their damn insolence and he carry out his notion thoroughly. that monday be one of the hard day in the memory of the white hussar. they be throw against a skeleton enemy and push forward and withdraw and dismount and scientifically handle in every possible fashion over dusty country till they sweat profusely. their only amusement come late in the day when they fell upon the battery of horse artillery and chase it for two mile. this be a personal question and most of the trooper have money on the event. the gunner say openly that they have the leg of the white hussar. they be wrong. a march past conclude the campaign and when the regiment get back to their line the men be coat with dirt from spur to chin strap. 
the white hussar have one great and peculiar privilege. they win it at fontenoy i think. 
many regiment posse special right such a wear collar with undress uniform or a bow of riband between the shoulder or red and white rose in their helmet on certain day of the year. some right be connect with regimental saint and some with regimental success. all be value highly. but none so highly a the right of the white hussar to have the band play when their horse be be water in the line. only one tune be play and that tune never vary. i don t know it real name but the white hussar call it take me to london again. it sound very pretty. the regiment would sooner be strike off the roster than forego their distinction. 
after the dismiss be sound the officer ride off home to prepare for stable. and the men file into the line rid easy. that be to say they open their tight button shift their helmet and begin to joke or to swear a the humor take them. the more careful slip off and ease girth and curb. a good trooper value his mount exactly a much a he value himself and belief or should believe that the two together be irresistible where woman or men girl or gun be concern. 
then the orderly officer give the order water horse and the regiment loaf off to the squadron trough which be in rear of the stable and between these and the barrack. there be four huge trough one for each squadron arrange en chelon_ so that the whole regiment could water in ten minute if it like. but it linger for seventeen a a rule while the band play. 
the band strike up a the squadron file off to the trough and the men slip their foot out of the stirrup and chaff each other. the sun be just set in a big hot bed of red cloud and the road to the civil line seem to run straight into the sun s eye. there be a little dot on the road. it grow and grow till it show a a horse with a sort of gridiron thing on his back. the red cloud glare through the bar of the gridiron. some of the trooper shade their eye with their hand and say what the mischief a that there orse get on im. 
in another minute they hear a neigh that every soul horse and man in the regiment know and saw head straight toward the band the dead drum horse of the white hussar. 
on his wither bang and bump the kettledrum drape in crape and on his back very stiff and soldierly sit a bareheaded skeleton. 
the band stop play and for a moment there be a hush. 
then some one in e troop men say it be the troop sergeant major swing his horse round and yell. no one can account exactly for what happen afterward. but it seem that at least one man in each troop set an example of panic and the rest follow like sheep. the horse that have barely put their muzzle into the trough rear and caper. but a soon a the band break which it do when the ghost of the drum horse be about a furlong distant all hoof follow suit and the clatter of the stampede quite different from the orderly throb and roar of a movement on parade or the rough horse play of water in camp make them only more terrify. they felt that the men on their back be afraid of something. when horse once know that all be over except the butchery. 
troop after troop turn from the trough and run anywhere and everywhere like spill quicksilver. it be a most extraordinary spectacle for men and horse be in all stage of easiness and the carbine bucket flop against their side urge the horse on. men be shout and curse and try to pull clear of the band which be be chase by the drum horse whose rider have fall forward and seem to be spur for a wager. 
the colonel have go over to the mess for a drink. most of the officer be with him and the subaltern of the day be prepare to go down to the line and receive the water report from the troop sergeant major. when take me to london again stop after twenty bar every one in the mess say what on earth ha happen. a minute late they hear unmilitary noise and saw far across the plain the white hussar scatter and break and fly. 
the colonel be speechless with rage for he think that the regiment have rise against him or be unanimously drink. the band a disorganize mob tear past and at it heel labor the drum horse the dead and bury drum horse with the jolt clatter skeleton hogan yale whisper softly to martyn no wire will stand that treatment and the band which have double like a hare come back again. but the rest of the regiment be go be riot all over the province for the dusk have shut in and each man be howl to his neighbor that the drum horse be on his flank. troop horse be far too tenderly treat a a rule. they can on emergency do a great deal even with seventeen stone on their back. a the trooper find out. 
how long this panic last i cannot say. i believe that when the moon rise the men saw they have nothing to fear and by two and three and half troop creep back into cantonment very much ashamed of themselves. meantime the drum horse disgust at his treatment by old friend pull up wheel round and trot up to the mess veranda step for bread. no one like to run. but no one care to go forward till the colonel make a movement and lay hold of the skeleton s foot. the band have halt some distance away and now come back slowly. the colonel call it individually and collectively every evil name that occur to him at the time. for he have set his hand on the bosom of the drum horse and find flesh and blood. then he beat the kettle drum with his clench fist and discover that they be but make of silver paper and bamboo. next still swear he try to drag the skeleton out of the saddle but find that it have be wire into the cantle. the sight of the colonel with his arm round the skeleton s pelvis and his knee in the old drum horse s stomach be strike. not to say amuse. he worry the thing off in a minute or two and throw it down on the grind say to the band here you cur that s what you re afraid of. the skeleton do not look pretty in the twilight the band sergeant seem to recognize it for he begin to chuckle and choke. shall i take it away sir. say the band sergeant. yes say the colonel take it to hell and ride there yourselves. 
the band sergeant salute hoist the skeleton across his saddle bow and lead off to the stable. then the colonel begin to make inquiry for the rest of the regiment and the language he use be wonderful he would disband the regiment he would court martial every soul in it he would not command such a set of rabble and so on and so on. a the men drop in his language grow wild until at last it exceed the utmost limit of free speech allow even to a colonel of horse. 
martyn take hogan yale aside and suggest compulsory retirement from the service a a necessity when all be discover. martyn be the weak man of the two. hogan yale put up his eyebrow and remark firstly that he be the son of a lord and secondly that he be a innocent a the babe unborn of the theatrical resurrection of the drum horse. 
my instruction say yale with a singularly sweet smile be that the drum horse should be send back a impressively a possible. i ask you be i responsible if a mule head friend send him back in such a manner a to disturb the peace of mind of a regiment of her majesty s cavalry. 
martyn say you be a great man and will in time become a general. but i d give my chance of a troop to be safe out of this affair. 
providence save martyn and hogan yale. the second in command lead the colonel away to the little curtain alcove wherein the subaltern of the white hussar be accustom to play poker of night. and there after many oath on the colonel s part they talk together in low tone. i fancy that the second in command must have represent the scare a the work of some trooper whom it would be hopeless to detect. and i know that he dwell upon the sin and the shame of make a public laugh stock of the scare. 
they will call u say the second in command who have really a fine imagination they will call u the fly by night. they will call u the ghost hunter. they will nickname u from one end of the army list to the other. all the explanation in the world win t make outsider understand that the officer be away when the panic begin. for the honor of the regiment and for your own sake keep this thing quiet. 
the colonel be so exhaust with anger that soothe him down be not so difficult a might be imagine. he be make to see gently and by degree that it be obviously impossible to court martial the whole regiment and equally impossible to proceed against any subaltern who in his belief have any concern in the hoax. 
but the beast s alive. he s never be shoot at all. shout the colonel. it s flat flagrant disobedience. i ve know a man break for le dam sight le. they re mock me i tell you mutman. they re mock me. 
once more the second in command set himself to soothe the colonel and wrestle with him for half an hour. at the end of that time the regimental sergeant major report himself. the situation be rather novel to him. but he be not a man to be put out by circumstance. he salute and say regiment all comeback sir. then to propitiate the colonel an none of the or any the bad sir. 
the colonel only snort and answer you d good tuck the men into their cot then and see that they don t wake up and cry in the night the sergeant withdraw. 
his little stroke of humor please the colonel and further he felt slightly ashamed of the language he have be use. the second in command worry him again and the two sit talk far into the night. 
next day but one there be a command officer s parade and the colonel harangue the white hussar vigorously. the pith of his speech be that since the drum horse in his old age have prove himself capable of cut up the whole regiment he should return to his post of pride at the head of the band but the regiment be a set of ruffian with bad conscience. 
the white hussar shout and throw everything movable about them into the air and when the parade be over they cheer the colonel till they couldn t speak. no cheer be put up for lieutenant hogan yale who smile very sweetly in the background. 
say the second in command to the colonel unofficially. 
these little thing ensure popularity and do not the least affect discipline. 
but i go back on my word say the colonel. 
never mind say the second in command. the white hussar will follow you anywhere from to day. regiment be just like woman. they will do anything for trinketry. 
a week late hogan yale receive an extraordinary letter from some one who sign himself secretary charity and zeal e. c. and ask for the return of our skeleton which we have reason to believe be in your possession. 
who the deuce be this lunatic who trade in bone. say hogan yale. 
beg your pardon sir say the band sergeant but the skeleton be with me an i ll return it if you ll pay the carriage into the civil line. there s a coffin with it sir. 
hogan yale smile and hand two rupee to the band sergeant say write the date on the skull will you. 
if you doubt this story and know where to go you can see the date on the skeleton. but don t mention the matter to the white hussar. 
i happen to know something about it because i prepare the drum horse for his resurrection. he do not take kindly to the skeleton at all. 
at twenty two. 
narrow a the womb deep a the pit and dark a the heart of a man. sonthal miner s proverb. 
a weaver go out to reap but stay to unravel the corn stalk. ha. ha. ha. be there any sense in a weaver. 
janki meah glare at kundoo but a janki meah be blind kundoo be not impress. he have come to argue with janki meah and if chance favor to make love to the old man s pretty young wife. 
this be kundoo s grievance and he speak in the name of all the five men who with janki meah compose the gang in number seven gallery of twenty two. janki meah have be blind for the thirty year during which he have serve the jimahari colliery with pick and crowbar. all through those thirty year he have regularly every morning before go down draw from the overseer his allowance of lamp oil just a if he have be an eye miner. what kundoo s gang resent a hundred of gang have resent before be janki meah s selfishness. he would not add the oil to the common stock of his gang but would save and sell it. 
i know these working before you be bear janki meah use to reply. i don t want the light to get my coal out by and i be not go to help you. the oil be mine and i intend to keep it. 
a strange man in many way be janki meah the white haired hot temper sightless weaver who have turn pitman. all day long except on sunday and monday when he be usually drink he work in the twenty two shaft of the jimahari colliery a cleverly a a man with all the sens. at even he go up in the great steam haul cage to the pit bank and there call for his pony a rusty coal dusty beast nearly a old a janki meah. the pony would come to his side and janki meah would clamber on to it back and be take at once to the plot of land which he like the other miner receive from the jimahari company. the pony know that place and when after six year the company change all the allotment to prevent the miner from acquire proprietary right janki meah represent with tear in his eye that be his holding shift he would never be able to find his way to the new one. my horse only know that place plead janki meah and so he be allow to keep his land. 
on the strength of this concession and his accumulate oil saving janki meah take a second wife a girl of the jolaha main stock of the meahs and singularly beautiful. janki meah could not see her beauty. wherefore he take her on trust and forbid her to go down the pit. he have not work for thirty year in the dark without know that the pit be no place for pretty woman. he load her with ornament not brass or pewter but real silver one and she reward him by flirt outrageously with kundoo of number seven gallery gang. kundoo be really the gang head but janki meah insist upon all the work be enter in his own name and choose the men that he work with. custom strong even than the jimahari company dictate that janki by right of his year should manage these thing and should also work despite his blindness. in indian mine where they cut into the solid coal with the pick and clear it out from floor to ceiling he could come to no great harm. at home where they undercut the coal and bring it down in crash avalanche from the roof he would never have be allow to set foot in a pit. he be not a popular man because of his oil saving. but all the gang admit that janki know all the khads or working that have ever be sink or work since the jimahari company first start operation on the tarachunda field. 
pretty little unda only know that her old husband be a fool who could be manage. she take no interest in the colliery except in so far a they swallow up kundoo five day out of the seven and cover him with coal dust. kundoo be a great workman and do his best not to get drink because when he have save forty rupee unda be to steal everything that she could find in janki s house and run with kundoo to a land where there be no mine and every one keep three fat bullock and a milch buffalo. while this scheme ripen it be his custom to drop in upon janki and worry him about the oil saving. unda sit in a corner and nod approval. on the night when kundoo have quote that objectionable proverb about weaver janki grow angry. 
listen you pig say he blind i be and old i be but before ever you be bear i be grey among the coal. even in the day when the twenty two khad be unsunk and there be not two thousand men here i be know to have all knowledge of the pit. what khad be there that i do not know from the bottom of the shaft to the end of the last drive. be it the baromba khad_ the old or the twenty two where tibu s gallery run up to number five. 
hear the old fool talk. say kundoo nod to unda. no gallery of twenty two will cut into five before the end of the rain. we have a month s solid coal before u. the babuji say so. 
babuji. pigji. dogji. what do these fat slug from calcutta know. he draw and draw and draw and talk and talk and talk and his map be all wrong. i janki know that this be so. when a man ha be shut up in the dark for thirty year god give him knowledge. the old gallery that tibu s gang make be not six foot from number five. 
without doubt god give the blind knowledge say kundoo with a look at unda. let it be a you say. i for my part do not know where lie the gallery of tibu s gang but i be not a wither monkey who need oil to grease his joint with. 
kundoo swing out of the hut laugh and unda giggle. janki turn his sightless eye toward his wife and swear. i have land and i have sell a great deal of lamp oil muse janki. but i be a fool to marry this child. 
a week late the rain set in with a vengeance and the gang paddle about in coal slush at the pit bank. then the big mine pump be make ready and the manager of the colliery plough through the wet toward the tarachunda river swell between it soppy bank. lord send that this beastly beck doesn t misbehave say the manager piously and he go to take counsel with his assistant about the pump. 
but the tarachunda misbehave very much indeed. after a fall of three inch of rain in an hour it be oblige to do something. it top it bank and join the flood water that be hem between two low hill just where the embankment of the colliery main line cross. when a large part of a rain feed river and a few acre of flood water make a dead set for a nine foot culvert the culvert may spout it fine but the water cannot all get out. the manager prance upon one leg with excitement and his language be improper. 
he have reason to swear because he know that one inch of water on land mean a pressure of one hundred ton to the acre. and here be about five foot of water form behind the railway embankment over the shallow working of twenty two. you must understand that in a coal mine the coal near the surface be work first from the central shaft. that be to say the miner may clear out the stuff to within ten twenty or thirty foot of the surface and when all be work out leave only a skin of earth uphold by some few pillar of coal. in a deep mine where they know that they have any amount of material at hand men prefer to get all their mineral out at one shaft rather than make a number of little hole to tap the comparatively unimportant surface coal. 
and the manager watch the flood. 
the culvert spout a nine foot gush. but the water still form and word be send to clear the men out of twenty two. the cage come up cram and cram again with the men near the pit eye a they call the place where you can see daylight from the bottom of the main shaft. all away and away up the long black gallery the flare lamp be wink and dance like so many firefly and the men and the woman wait for the clank rattle thunder cage to come down and fly up again. but the outworkings be very far off and word could not be pass quickly though the head of the gang and the assistant shout and swear and tramp and stumble. the manager keep one eye on the great trouble pool behind the embankment and pray that the culvert would give way and let the water through in time. with the other eye he watch the cage come up and saw the headman count the roll of the gang. with all his heart and soul he swear at the winder who control the iron drum that wind up the wire rope on which hang the cage. 
in a little time there be a down draw in the water behind the embankment a suck whirlpool all yellow and yeasty. the water have smash through the skin of the earth and be pour into the old shallow working of twenty two. 
deep down below a rush of black water catch the last gang wait for the cage and a they clamber in the whirl be about their waist. the cage reach the pit bank and the manager call the roll. the gang be all safe except gang janki gang mogul and gang rahim eighteen men with perhaps ten basket woman who load the coal into the little iron carriage that run on the tramway of the main gallery. these gang be in the out working three quarter of a mile away on the extreme fringe of the mine. once more the cage go down but with only two english men in it and drop into a swirl roar current that have almost touch the roof of some of the low side gallery. one of the wooden balk with which they have prop the old working shoot past on the current just miss the cage. 
if we don t want our rib knock out we d good go say the manager. we can t even save the company s prop. 
the cage draw out of the water with a splash and a few minute late it be officially report that there be at least ten foot of water in the pit s eye. now ten foot of water there mean that all other place in the mine be flood except such gallery a be more than ten foot above the level of the bottom of the shaft. the deep working would be full the main gallery would be full but in the high working reach by incline from the main road there would be a certain amount of air cut off so to speak by the water and squeeze up by it. the little science primer explain how water behave when you pour it down test tube. the flood of twenty two be an illustration on a large scale. 
* * * * *. 
by the holy grove what ha happen to the air. it be a sonthal gangman of gang mogul in number nine gallery and he be drive a six foot way through the coal. then there be a rush from the other gallery and gang janki and gang rahim stumble up with their basket woman. 
water ha come in the mine they say and there be no way of get out. 
i go down say janki down the slope of my gallery and i felt the water. 
there ha be no water in the cut in our time clamor the woman why cannot we go away. 
be silent. say janki long ago when my father be here water come to ten no eleven cut and there be great trouble. let u get away to where the air be good. 
the three gang and the basket woman leave number nine gallery and go further up number sixteen. at one turn of the road they could see the pitchy black water lap on the coal. it have touch the roof of a gallery that they know well a gallery where they use to smoke their huqas and manage their flirtation. see this they call aloud upon their god and the mehas who be thrice bastard muhammadan strive to recollect the name of the prophet. they come to a great open square whence nearly all the coal have be extract. it be the end of the out working and the end of the mine. 
far away down the gallery a small pump engine use for keep dry a deep work and feed with steam from above be throb faithfully. they hear it cease. 
they have cut off the steam say kundoo hopefully. they have give the order to use all the steam for the pit bank pump. they will clear out the water. 
if the water ha reach the smoke gallery say janki all the company s pump can do nothing for three day. 
it be very hot moan jasoda the meah basket woman. there be a very bad air here because of the lamp. 
put them out say janki. why do you want lamp. the lamp be put out and the company sit still in the utter dark. somebody rise quietly and begin walk over the coal. it be janki who be touch the wall with his hand. where be the ledge. he murmur to himself. 
sit sit. say kundoo. if we die we die. the air be very bad. 
but janki still stumble and creep and tap with his pick upon the wall. the woman rise to their foot. 
stay all where you be. without the lamp you cannot see and i i be always see say janki. then he pause and call out. oh you who have be in the cut more than ten year what be the name of this open place. i be an old man and i have forget. 
bullia s room answer the sonthal who have complain of the vileness of the air. 
again say janki. 
bullia s room. 
then i have find it say janki. the name only have slip my memory. tibu s gang s gallery be here. 
a lie say kundoo. there have be no gallery in this place since my day. 
three pace be the depth of the ledge mutter janki without heed and oh my poor bone. i have find it. it be here up this ledge come all you one by one to the place of my voice and i will count you. 
there be a rush in the dark and janki felt the first man s face hit his knee a the sonthal scramble up the ledge. 
who. cry janki. 
i sunua manji. 
sit you down say janki who next. 
one by one the woman and the men crawl up the ledge which run along one side of bullia s room. degrade muhammadan pig eat musahr and wild sonthal janki run his hand over them all. 
now follow after say he catch hold of my heel and the woman catch the men s clothe. he do not ask whether the men have bring their pick with them. a miner black or white doe not drop his pick. one by one janki lead they creep into the old gallery a six foot way with a scant four foot from hill to roof. 
the air be good here say jasoda. they could hear her heart beat in thick sick bump. 
slowly slowly say janki. i be an old man and i forget many thing. this be tibu s gallery but where be the four brick where they use to put their huqa fire on when the sahib never saw. slowly slowly o you people behind. 
they hear his hand disturb the small coal on the floor of the gallery and then a dull sound. this be one unbaked brick and this be another and another. kundoo be a young man let him come forward. put a knee upon this brick and strike here. when tibu s gang be at dinner on the last day before the good coal end they hear the men of five on the other side and five work their gallery two sunday late or it may have be one. strike there kundoo but give me room to go back. 
kundoo doubt drive the pick but the first soft crush of the coal be a call to him. he be fight for his life and for unda pretty little unda with ring on all her toe for unda and the forty rupee. the woman sing the song of the pick the terrible slow swing melody with the mutter chorus that repeat the slide of the loosen coal and to each cadence kundoo smite in the black dark. when he could do no more sunua manji take the pick and strike for his life and his wife and his village beyond the blue hill over the tarachunda river. an hour the men work and then the woman clear away the coal. 
it be farther than i think say janki. the air be very bad. but strike kundoo strike hard. 
for the fifth time kundoo take up the pick a the sonthal crawl back. the song have scarcely recommence when it be break by a yell from kundoo that echo down the gallery. _par hua. par hua. we be through we be through. the imprison air in the mine shoot through the open and the woman at the far end of the gallery hear the water rush through the pillar of bullia s room and roar against the ledge. have fulfil the law under which it work it rise no farther. the woman scream and press forward the water ha come we shall be kill. let u go. 
kundoo crawl through the gap and find himself in a prop gallery by the simple process of hit his head against a beam. 
do i know the pit or do i not. chuckle janki. this be the number five. go you out slowly give me your name. ho. rahim count your gang. now let u go forward each catch hold of the other a before. 
they form a line in the darkness and janki lead them for a pit man in a strange pit be only one degree le liable to err than an ordinary mortal underground for the first time. at last they saw a flare lamp and gang janki mogul and rahim of twenty two stumble daze into the glare of the draught furnace at the bottom of five. janki feel his way and the rest behind. 
water ha come into twenty two. god know where be the others. i have bring these men from tibu s gallery in our cut. make connection through the north side of the gallery. take u to the cage say janki meah. 
* * * * *. 
at the pit bank of twenty two some thousand people clamor and weep and shout. one hundred men one thousand men have be drown in the cut. they would all go to their home to morrow. where be their men. little unda her cloth drench with the rain stand at the pit mouth call down the shaft for kundoo. they have swing the cage clear of the mouth and her only answer be the murmur of the flood in the pit s eye two hundred and sixty foot below. 
look after that woman. she ll chuck herself down the shaft in a minute shout the manager. 
but he need not have trouble. unda be afraid of death. she want kundoo. the assistant be watch the flood and see how far he could wade into it. there be a lull in the water and the whirlpool have slacken. the mine be full and the people at the pit bank howl. 
my faith we shall be lucky if we have five hundred hand on the place to morrow. say the manager. there s some chance yet of run a temporary dam across that water. shove in anything tub and bullock cart if you haven t enough brick. make them work now if they never work before. hi. you ganger make them work. 
little by little the crowd be break into detachment and push toward the water with promise of overtime. the dam make begin and when it be fairly under way the manager think that the hour have come for the pump. there be no fresh inrush into the mine. the tall red iron clamp pump beam rise and fell and the pump snore and gutter and shriek a the first water pour out of the pipe. 
we must run her all to night say the manager wearily but there s no hope for the poor devil down below. look here gur sahai if you be proud of your engine show me what they can do now. 
gur sahai grin and nod with his right hand upon the lever and an oil can in his leave. he could do no more than he be do but he could keep that up till the dawn. be the company s pump to be beat by the vagary of that troublesome tarachunda river. never never. and the pump sob and pant. never never. the manager sit in the shelter of the pit bank roof try to dry himself by the pump boiler fire and in the dreary dusk he saw the crowd on the dam scatter and fly. 
that s the end he groan. twill take u six week to persuade em that we haven t try to drown their mate on purpose. oh for a decent rational geordie. 
but the flight have no panic in it. men have run over from five with astound news and the foreman could not hold their gang together. presently surround by a clamorous crew gang rahim mogul and janki and ten basket woman walk up to report themselves and pretty little unda steal away to janki s hut to prepare his even meal. 
alone i find the way explain janki meah and now will the company give me pension. 
the simple pit folk shout and leap and go back to the dam reassure in their old belief that whatever happen so great be the power of the company whose salt they eat none of them could be kill. but gur sahai only bar his white teeth and keep his hand upon the lever and prove his pump to the uttermost. 
* * * * *. 
i say say the assistant to the manager a week late do you recollect germinal. 
yes. queer thing i think of it in the cage when that balk go by. why. 
oh this business seem to be germinal upside down. janki be in my veranda all this morning tell me that kundoo have elope with his wife unda or anda i think her name be. 
hillo. and those be the cattle that you risk your life to clear out of twenty two. 
no i be think of the company s prop not the company s men. 
sound good to say so now. but i don t believe you old fellow. 
the court of dinah shadd. 
what do the colonel s lady think. nobody never know. somebody ask the sergeant s wife an she tell em true. when you git to a man in the case they re like a row o pin for the colonel s lady an judy o grady be sister under their skin. 
barrack room ballad. 
all day i have follow at the heel of a pursue army engage on one of the fine battle that ever camp of exercise behold. thirty thousand troop have by the wisdom of the government of india be turn loose over a few thousand square mile of country to practice in peace what they would never attempt in war. consequently cavalry charge unshaken infantry at the trot. infantry capture artillery by frontal attack deliver in line of quarter column and mount infantry skirmish up to the wheel of an armor train which carry nothing more deadly than a twenty five pounder armstrong two nordenfeldts and a few score volunteer all case in three eighth inch boiler plate. yet it be a very lifelike camp. operation do not cease at sundown. nobody know the country and nobody spar man or horse. there be unending cavalry scout and almost unending force work over break grind. the army of the south have finally pierce the centre of the army of the north and be pour through the gap hot foot to capture a city of strategic importance. it front extend fanwise the stick be represent by regiment string out along the line of route backward to the divisional transport column and all the lumber that trail behind an army on the move. on it right the break leave of the army of the north be fly in mass chase by the southern horse and hammer by the southern gun till these have be push far beyond the limit of their last support. then the fly sit down to rest while the elate commandant of the pursue force telegraph that he hold all in check and observation. 
unluckily he do not observe that three mile to his right flank a fly column of northern horse with a detachment of ghoorkhas and british troop have be push round a fast a the fail light allow to cut across the entire rear of the southern army to break a it be all the rib of the fan where they converge by strike at the transport reserve ammunition and artillery supply. their instruction be to go in avoid the few scout who might not have be draw off by the pursuit and create sufficient excitement to impress the southern army with the wisdom of guard their own flank and rear before they capture city. it be a pretty manoeuvre neatly carry out. 
speak for the second division of the southern army our first intimation of the attack be at twilight when the artillery be labor in deep sand most of the escort be try to help them out and the main body of the infantry have go on. a noah s ark of elephant camel and the mix menagerie of an indian transport train bubble and squeal behind the gun when there appear from nowhere in particular british infantry to the extent of three company who spring to the head of the gun horse and bring all to a standstill amid oath and cheer. 
how s that umpire. say the major command the attack and with one voice the driver and limber gunner answer hout. while the colonel of artillery sputter. 
all your scout be charge our main body say the major. your flank be unprotected for two mile. i think we ve break the back of this division. and listen there go the ghoorkhas. 
a weak fire break from the rear guard more than a mile away and be answer by cheerful howling. the ghoorkhas who should have swing clear of the second division have step on it tail in the dark but draw off hasten to reach the next line of attack which lay almost parallel to u five or six mile away. 
our column sway and surge irresolutely three battery the divisional ammunition reserve the baggage and a section of the hospital and bearer corp. the commandant ruefully promise to report himself cut up to the near umpire and commend his cavalry and all other cavalry to the special care of eblis toil on to resume touch with the rest of the division. 
we ll bivouac here to night say the major i have a notion that the ghoorkhas will get catch. they may want u to re form on. stand easy till the transport get away. 
a hand catch my beast s bridle and lead him out of the choke dust. a large hand deftly cant me out of the saddle. and two of the huge hand in the world receive me slide. pleasant be the lot of the special correspondent who fall into such hand a those of private mulvaney ortheris and learoyd. 
an that s all right say the irishman calmly. we think we d find you somewhere here by. be there anything av yours in the transport. orth ri ll fetch ut out. 
ortheris do fetch ut out from under the trunk of an elephant in the shape of a servant and an animal both lade with medical comfort. the little man s eye sparkle. 
if the brutil an licentious soldiery av these part get sight av the thruck say mulvaney make practice investigation they ll loot ev rything. they re bein feed on iron filin s an dog biscuit these day but glory s no compensation for a belly ache. praise be we re here to protect you sorr. beer sausage bread. soft an that s a cur osity. soup in a tin whisky by the smell av ut an fowl. mother av moses but ye take the field like a confectioner. ti scand lu. 
ere s a orficer say ortheris significantly. when the sergent s do lushin the privit may clean the pot. 
i bundle several thing into mulvaney s haversack before the major s hand fell on my shoulder and he say tenderly requisition for the queen s service. wolseley be quite wrong about special correspondent. they be the soldier s best friend. come and take pot luck with u to night. 
and so it happen amid laughter and shouting that my well consider commissariat melt away to reappear late at the mess table which be a waterproof sheet spread on the grind. the fly column have take three day ration with it and there be few thing nasty than government ration especially when government be experiment with german toy. erbsenwurst tin beef of surpass tinniness compress vegetable and meat biscuit may be nourish but what thomas atkins need be bulk in his inside. the major assist by his brother officer purchase goat for the camp and so make the experiment of no effect. long before the fatigue party send to collect brushwood have return the men be settle down by their valise kettle and pot have appear from the surround country and be dangle over fire a the kid and the compress vegetable bubble together. there rise a cheerful clink of mess tin. outrageous demand for a little more stuffin with that there liver wing. and gust on gust of chaff a point a a bayonet and a delicate a a gun butt. 
the boy be in a good temper say the major. they ll be sing presently. well a night like this be enough to keep them happy. 
over our head burn the wonderful indian star which be not all prick in on one plane but preserve an orderly perspective draw the eye through the velvet darkness of the void up to the bar door of heaven itself. the earth be a grey shadow more unreal than the sky. we could hear her breathe lightly in the pause between the howl of the jackal the movement of the wind in the tamarisk and the fitful mutter of musketry fire league away to the leave. a native woman from some unseen hut begin to sing the mail train thunder past on it way to delhi and a roost crow caw drowsily. then there be a belt loosen silence about the fire and the even breathe of the crowd earth take up the story. 
the men full feed turn to tobacco and song their officer with them. the subaltern be happy who can win the approval of the musical critic in his regiment and be honor among the more intricate step dancer. by him a by him who play cricket cleverly thomas atkins will stand in time of need when he will let a good officer go on alone. the ruin tomb of forget mussulman saint hear the ballad of agra town the buffalo battery march to kabul the long long indian day the place where the punkah coolie died_ and that crash chorus which announce. 
youth s dare spirit manhood s fire firm hand and eagle eye must he acquire who would aspire to see the grey boar die. 
to day of all those jovial thief who appropriate my commissariat and lay and laugh round that waterproof sheet not one remain. they go to camp that be not of exercise and battle without umpire. burmah the soudan and the frontier fever and fight take them in their time. 
i drift across to the men s fire in search of mulvaney whom i find strategically grease his foot by the blaze. there be nothing particularly lovely in the sight of a private thus engage after a long day s march but when you reflect on the exact proportion of the might majesty dominion and power of the british empire which stand on those foot you take an interest in the proceeding. 
there s a blister bad luck to ut on the heel say mulvaney. i can t touch ut. prick ut out little man. 
ortheris take out his house wife ease the trouble with a needle stab mulvaney in the calf with the same weapon and be swiftly kick into the fire. 
i ve bruk the best av my toe over you ye grinnin child av disruption say mulvaney sit cross legged and nurse his foot. then see me oh ut s you sorr. be welkim an take that maraudin scutt s place jock hold him down on the cindhers for a bite. 
but ortheris escape and go elsewhere a i take possession of the hollow he have scrap for himself and line with his greatcoat. learoyd on the other side of the fire grin affably and in a minute fell fast asleep. 
there s the height av politeness for you say mulvaney light his pipe with a flame branch. but jock s eat half a box av your sardine at wan gulp an i think the tin too. what s the best wid you sorr an how do you happen to be on the losin side this day whin we capture you. 
the army of the south be win all along the line i say. 
then that line s the hangman s rope savin your presence. you ll learn to morrow how we rethreated to dhraw thim on before we make thim trouble an that s what a woman doe. by the same tokin we ll be attack before the dawnin an ut would be betther not to slip your boot. how do i know that. by the light av pure reason. here be three company av u ever so far inside av the enemy s flank an a crowd av roarin tarin squealin cavalry go on just to turn out the whole hornet s nest av them. av course the enemy will pursue by brigade like a not an thin we ll have to run for ut. mark my word. i be av the opinion av polonius whin he say don t fight wid ivry scutt for the pure joy av fightin but if you do knock the nose av him first an frequint. we ought to ha go on an help the ghoorkhas. 
but what do you know about polonius. i demand. this be a new side of mulvaney s character. 
all that shakespeare iv write an a dale more that the gallery shout say the man of war carefully lace his boot. do i not tell you av silver s theatre in dublin whin i be young than i be now an a patron av the drama. ould silver wud never pay actor man or woman their just due an by consequince his comp ny be collapsible at the last minut. thin the bhoys wud clamor to take a part an oft a not ould silver make them pay for the fun. faith i ve see hamlut play wid a new black eye an the queen a full a a cornucopia. i remimber wanst hogin that list in the black tyrone an be shoot in south africa he sejuced ould silver into givin him hamlut s part instid av me that have a fine fancy for rhetoric in those day. av course i wint into the gallery an begin to fill the pit wid other people s hat an i pass the time av day to hogin walkin through denmark like a hamstring mule wid a pall on his back hamlut sez i there s a hole in your heel. pull up your shtockin s hamlut sez i hamlut hamlut for the love av decincy dhrop that skull an pull up your shtockin s. the whole house begin to tell him that. he stop his soliloquishms mid between. my shtockin s may be comin down or they may not sez he screwin his eye into the gallery for well he know who i be. but afther this performince be over me an the ghost ll trample the tripe out av you terence wid your as s bray. an that s how i come to know about hamlut. eyah. those day those day. do you iv have onendin devilmint an nothin to pay for it in your life sorr. 
never without have to pay i say. 
that s thrue. ti mane whin you considher on ut. but ut s the same wid horse or fut. a headache if you dhrink an a belly ache if you eat too much an a heart ache to kape all down. faith the beast only get the colic an he s the lucky man. 
he drop his head and star into the fire finger his moustache the while. from the far side of the bivouac the voice of corbet nolan senior subaltern of b company uplift itself in an ancient and much appreciate song of sentiment the men moan melodiously behind him. 
the north wind blow coldly she drop from that hour my own little kathleen my sweet little kathleen kathleen my kathleen kathleen o moore. 
with forty five o s in the last word. even at that distance you might have cut the soft south irish accent with a shovel. 
for all we take we must pay but the price be cruel high murmur mulvaney when the chorus have cease. 
what s the trouble. i say gently for i know that he be a man of an inextinguishable sorrow. 
hear now say he. ye know what i be now. i know what i mint to be at the beginnin av my service. i ve tould you time an again an what i have not dinah shadd ha. an what be i. oh mary mother av hiven an ould dhrunken untrustable baste av a privit that ha see the reg ment change out from colonel to drummer boy not wanst or twice but score av time. ay score. an me not so near gettin promotion a in the first. an me livin on an kapin clear av clink not by my own good conduck but the kindness av some orf cer bhoy young enough to be son to me. do i not know ut. can i not tell whin i m pass over at p rade tho i m rockin full av liquor an ready to fall all in wan piece such a even a suckin child might see bekaze oh ti only ould mulvaney. an whin i m let off in ord ly room through some thrick of the tongue an a ready answer an the ould man s mercy be ut smilin i feel whin i fall away an go back to dinah shadd thryin to carry ut all off a a joke. not i. ti hell to me dumb hell through ut all. an next time whin the fit come i will be a bad again. good cause the reg ment ha to know me for the best soldier in ut. good cause have i to know mesilf for the bad man. i m only fit to tache the new draft what i ll niver learn mesilf. an i be sure a tho i hear ut that the minut wan av these pink eye recruities get away from my mind ye now an listen to this jim bhoy sure i be that the sergint houlds me up to him for a warnin. so i tache a they say at musketry instruction by direct and ricochet fire. lord be good to me for i have stud some throuble. 
lie down and go to sleep say i not be able to comfort or advise. you re the best man in the regiment and next to ortheris the big fool. lie down and wait till we re attack. what force will they turn out. gun think you. 
try that wid your lorrds an lady twistin an turnin the talk tho you mint ut well. ye cud say nothin to help me an yet ye niver know what cause i have to be what i be. 
begin at the begin and go on to the end i say royally. but rake up the fire a bite first. 
i pass ortheris s bayonet for a poker. 
that show how little we know what we do say mulvaney put it aside. fire take all the heart out av the steel an the next time may be that our little man be fight for his life his bradawl ll break an so you ll ha kill him manin no more than to kape yourself warm. ti a recruity s thrick that. pas the clanin rod sorr. 
i snuggle down abase. and after an interval the voice of mulvaney begin. 
do i iv tell you how dinah shadd come to be wife av mine. 
i dissemble a burn anxiety that i have felt for some month ever since dinah shadd the strong the patient and the infinitely tender have of her own good love and free will wash a shirt for me move in a barren land where wash be not. 
i can t remember i say casually. be it before or after you make love to annie bragin and get no satisfaction. 
the story of annie bragin be write in another place. it be one of the many le respectable episode in mulvaney s checker career. 
before before long before be that business av annie bragin an the corp ril s ghost. niver woman be the bad for me whin i have marry dinah. there s a time for all thing an i know how to kape all thing in place barrin the dhrink that kapes me in my place wid no hope av comin to be aught else. 
begin at the begin i insist. mr. mulvaney tell me that you marry her when you be quarter in krab bokhar barrack. 
an the same be a ce pit say mulvaney piously. she speak thrue do dinah. twas this way. talkin av that have ye iv fall in love sorr. 
i preserve the silence of the damn. mulvaney continue. 
thin i will assume that ye have not. i do. in the day av my youth a i have more than wanst tould you i be a man that fill the eye an delight the sowl av woman. niver man be hat a i have bin. niver man be love a i no not within half a day s march av ut. for the first five year av my service whin i be what i wud give my sowl to be now i tuk whatever be within my reach an digest ut an that s more than most men can say. dhrink i tuk an ut do me no harm. by the hollow av hiven i cud play wid four woman at wanst an kape them from findin out anythin about the other three an smile like a fullblown marigold through ut all. dick coulhan av the battery we ll have down on u to night could drive his team no good than i mine an i hild the worse cattle. an so i live an so i be happy till afther that business wid annie bragin she that turn me off a cool a a meat safe an teach me where i stud in the mind av an honest woman. twas no sweet dose to swallow. 
afther that i sicken awhile an tuk think to my reg mental work. conceiting mesilf i wud study an be a sargint an a major gineral twinty minute afther that. but on top av my ambitiousness there be an empty place in my sowl an me own opinion av mesilf cud not fill ut. sez i to mesilf terence you re a great man an the best set up in the reg mint. go on an get promotion. sez mesilf to me what for. sez i to mesilf for the glory av ut. sez mesilf to me will that fill these two strong arrums av yours terence. go to the devil sez i to mesilf go to the marry line sez mesilf to me. ti the same thing sez i to mesilf. av you re the same man ut be say mesilf to me. an wid that i considhered on ut a long while. do you iv feel that way sorr. 
i snore gently know that if mulvaney be uninterrupted he would go on. the clamor from the bivouac fire beat up to the star a the rival singer of the company be pit against each other. 
so i felt that way an a bad time ut be. wanst bein a fool i wint into the marry line more for the sake av spakin to our ould color sergint shadd than for any thruck wid womenfolk. i be a corp ril then rejuced aftherward but a corp ril then. i ve get a photograft av mesilf to prove ut. you ll take a cup av tay wid u. sez shadd. i will that i sez tho tay be not my divarsion. 
twud be good for you if ut be sez ould mother shadd an she have ought to know for shadd in the ind av his service dhrank bung full each night. 
wid that i tuk off my glove there be pipe clay in thim so that they stud alone an pull up my chair lookin round at the china ornament an bit av thing in the shadds quarter. they be thing that belong to a man an no camp kit here to day an dishipated next. you re comfortable in this place sergint sez i. ti the wife that do ut boy sez he pointin the stem av his pipe to ould mother shadd an she smack the top av his bald head apon the compliment. that mane you want money sez she. 
an thin an thin whin the kettle be to be fill dinah come in my dinah her sleeve rowled up to the elbow an her hair in a winkin glory over her forehead the big blue eye beneath twinklin like star on a frosty night an the tread av her two foot light than wastepaper from the colonel s basket in ord ly room whin ut s empty. bein but a shlip av a girl she go pink at seein me an i twist me moustache an look at a picture forninst the wall. niver show a woman that ye care the snap av a finger for her an begad she ll come bleatin to your boot heel. 
i suppose that s why you follow annie bragin till everybody in the marry quarter laugh at you say i remember that unhallow woo and cast off the disguise of drowsiness. 
i m layin down the gin ral theory av the attack say mulvaney drive his boot into the die fire. if you read the soldier s pocket book_ which niver any soldier read you ll see that there be exception. whin dinah be out av the door. an twas a tho the sunlight have shut too. mother av hiven sergint sez i but be that your daughter. i ve believe that way these eighteen year sez ould shadd his eye twinklin. but mr. shadd ha her own opinion like iv ry woman ti wid yours this time for a mericle sez mother shadd. thin why in the name av fortune do i niver see her before. sez i. bekaze you ve be thrapesin round wid the marry woman these three year past. she be a bite av a child till last year an she shoot up wid the spring sez ould mother shadd i ll thrapese no more sez i. d you mane that. sez ould mother shadd lookin at me side way like a hen look at a hawk whin the chicken be runnin free. try me an tell sez i. wid that i pull on my glove dhrank off the tay an go out av the house a stiff a at gin ral p rade for well i know that dinah shadd s eye be in the small av my back out av the scullery window. faith. that be the only time i mourn i be not a cav lry man for the pride av the spur to jingle. 
i wint out to think an i do a powerful lot av thinkin but ut all come round to that shlip av a girl in the dot blue dhress wid the blue eye an the sparkil in them. thin i keep off canteen an i keep to the marry quarthers or near by on the chanst av meetin dinah. do i meet her. oh my time past do i not. wid a lump in my throat a big a my valise an my heart goin like a farrier s forge on a saturday morning. twas good day to ye miss dinah an good day t you corp ril for a week or two and divil a bite further could i get bekaze av the respect i have to that girl that i cud ha break betune finger an thumb. 
here i giggle a i recall the gigantic figure of dinah shadd when she hand me my shirt. 
ye may laugh grunt mulvaney. but i m speakin the trut an ti you that be in fault. dinah be a girl that wud ha take the imperiousness out av the duchess av clonmel in those day. flower hand foot av shoe air an the eye av the livin mornin she have that be my wife to day ould dinah and niver aught else than dinah shadd to me. 
twas after three week standin off an on an niver makin headway excipt through the eye that a little drummer boy grin in me face whin i have admonish him wid the buckle av my belt for riotin all over the place an i m not the only wan that doesn t kape to barricks sez he. i tuk him by the scruff av his neck my heart be hang on a hair thrigger those day you will onderstand an out wid ut sez i or i ll lave no bone av you unbreakable speak to dempsey sez he howlin. dempsey which. sez i ye unwashed limb av satan. av the bob tail dhragoons sez he he s see her home from her aunt s house in the civil line four time this fortnight child. sez i dhroppin him your tongue s strong than your body. go to your quarter. i m sorry i dhressed you down. 
at that i go four way to wanst huntin dempsey. i be mad to think that wid all my air among woman i shud ha be chat by a basin face fool av a cav lryman not fit to trust on a trunk. presintly i find him in our line the bobtail be quarter next u an a tallowy topheavy son av a she mule he be wid his big brass spur an his plastron on his epigastrons an all. but he niver flinch a hair. 
a word wid you dempsey sez i. you ve walk wid dinah shadd four time this fortnight go. 
what s that to you. sez he. i ll walk forty time more an forty on top av that ye shovel futted clod breakin infantry lance corp ril. 
before i cud gyard he have his gloved fist home on my cheek an down i go full sprawl. will that content you. sez he blowin on his knuckle for all the world like a scot grey orf cer. content. sez i. for your own sake man take off your spur peel your jackut an onglove. ti the beginnin av the overture. stand up. 
he stud all he know but he niver peel his jacket an his shoulder have no fair play. i be fightin for dinah shadd an that cut on my cheek. what hope have he forninst me. stand up sez i time an again whin he be beginnin to quarter the grind an gyard high an go large. this isn t ridin school i sez. o man stand up an let me get in at ye. but whin i saw he wud be runnin about i grup his shtock in my leave an his waist belt in my right an swing him clear to my right front head undher he hammerin my nose till the wind be knock out av him on the bare grind. stand up sez i or i ll kick your head into your chest. and i wud ha do ut too so ragin mad i be. 
my collar bone s bruk sez he. help me back to line. i ll walk wid her no more. so i help him back. 
and be his collar bone break. i ask for i fancy that only learoyd could neatly accomplish that terrible throw. 
he pitch on his leave shoulder point. ut be. next day the news be in both barricks an whin i meet dinah shadd wid a cheek on me like all the reg mintal tailor s sample there be no good mornin corp ril or aught else. an what have i do miss shadd sez i very bould plantin mesilf forninst her that ye should not pas the time of day. 
ye ve half kill rough rider dempsey sez she her dear blue eye fillin up. 
may be sez i. be he a friend av yours that saw ye home four time in the fortnight. 
yes sez she but her mouth be down at the corner an an what s that to you. she sez. 
ask dempsey sez i purtendin to go away. 
do you fight for me then ye silly man. she sez tho she know ut all along. 
who else. sez i an i tuk wan pace to the front. 
i wasn t worth ut sez she fingerin in her apron. 
that s for me to say sez i. shall i say ut. 
yes sez she in a saint s whisper an at that i explain mesilf. and she tould me what ivry man that be a man an many that be a woman hear wanst in his life. 
but what make ye cry at startin dinah darlin. sez i. 
your your bloody cheek sez she duckin her little head down on my sash. i be on duty for the day. an whimperin like a sorrowful angil. 
now a man cud take that two way. i tuk ut a please me best an my first kiss wid ut. mother av innocence. but i kiss her on the tip av the nose and undher the eye. an a girl that let s a kiss come tumble way like that ha never be kiss before. take note av that sorr. thin we wint hand in hand to ould mother shadd like two little childher an she say twas no bad thing an ould shadd nod behind his pipe an dinah run away to her own room. that day i throd on rollin cloud. all earth be too small to hould me. begad i cud ha hike the sun out av the sky for a live coal to my pipe so magnificent i be. but i tuk recruities at squad drill instid an begin wid general battalion advance whin i shud ha be balance steppin them. eyah. that day. that day. 
a very long pause. well. say i. 
twas all wrong say mulvaney with an enormous sigh. an i know that ev ry bite av ut be my own foolishness. that night i tuk maybe the half av three pint not enough to turn the hair of a man in his natural sens. but i be more than half drink wid pure joy an that canteen beer be so much whisky to me i can t tell how it come about but bekaze i have no think for anywan except dinah bekaze i hadn t slip her little white arm from my neck five minuts bekaze the breath of her kiss be not go from my mouth i must go through the marry line on my way to quarter an i must stay talkin to a red head mullingar heifer av a girl judy sheehy that be daughter to mother sheehy the wife of nick sheehy the canteen sergint the black curse av shielygh be on the whole brood that be above groun this day. 
an what be ye houldin your head that high for corp ril. sez judy. come in an thry a cup av tay she sez standin in the doorway. bein an ontrustable fool an thinkin av anything but tay i wint. 
mother s at canteen sez judy smoothin the hair av hers that be like red snake an lookin at me corner way out av her green cat eye. ye will not mind corp ril. 
i can endure sez i. ould mother sheehy bein no divarsion av mine nor her daughter too. judy fetch the tea thing an put thim on the table leanin over me very close to get thim square. i dhrew back thinkin av dinah. 
be ut afraid you be av a girl alone. sez judy. 
no sez i. why should i be. 
that rest wid the girl sez judy dhrawin her chair next to mine. 
thin there let ut rest sez i. an thinkin i d be a trifle onpolite i sez the tay s not quite sweet enough for my taste. put your little finger in the cup judy. twill make ut necthar. 
what s necthar. sez she. 
somethin very sweet sez i. an for the sinful life av me i cud not help lookin at her out av the corner av my eye a i be use to look at a woman. 
go on wid ye corp ril sez she. you re a flirrt. 
on me sowl i m not sez i. 
then you re a cruel handsome man an that s bad sez she heave big sigh an lookin crossway. 
you know your own mind sez i. 
twud be good for me if i do not she sez. 
there s a dale to be say on both side av that sez i unthinkin. 
say your own part av ut then terence darlin sez she. for begad i m thinkin i ve say too much or too little for an honest girl an wid that she put her arm round my neck an kiss me. 
there s no more to be say afther that sez i kissin her back again oh the mane scutt that i be my head ringin wid dinah shadd. how doe ut come about sorr that when a man ha put the comether on wan woman he s sure bind to put it on another. ti the same thing at musketry wan day ivry shoot go wide or into the bank an the next lay high lay low sight or snap ye can t get off the bull s eye for ten shot runnin. 
that only happen to a man who ha have a good deal of experience. he doe it without think i reply. 
thankin you for the complimint sorr ut may be so. but i m doubtful whether you mint ut for a complimint. hear now. i sit there wid judy on my knee tellin me all manner av nonsinse an only sayin yes an no when i d much good ha keep tongue betune teeth. an that be not an hour afther i have leave dinah. what i be thinkin av i cannot say presintly. quiet a a cat ould mother sheehy come in velvet dhrunk. she have her daughter s red hair but twas bald in patch an i cud see in her wicked ould face clear a lightnin what judy wud be twenty year to come. i be for jumpin up but judy niver move. 
terence ha promust mother sez she an the could sweat bruk out all over me. ould mother sheehy sit down of a heap an begin playin wid the cup. thin you re a well match pair she sez very thick. for he s the big rogue that iv spoil the queen s shoe leather an. 
i m off judy sez i. ye should not talk nonsinse to your mother. get her to bed girl. 
nonsinse. sez the ould woman prickin up her ear like a cat an grippin the table edge. twill be the most nonsinsical nonsinse for you ye grinnin badger if nonsinse ti. git clear you. i m goin to bed. 
i run out into the dhark my head in a stew an my heart sick but i have sinse enough to see that i d bring ut all on mysilf. it s this to pas the time av day to a panjandhrum av hellcat sez i. what i ve say an what i ve not say do not matther. judy an her dam will hould me for a promust man an dinah will give me the go an i desarve ut. i will go an get dhrunk sez i an forget about ut for ti plain i m not a marrin man. 
on my way to canteen i run against lascelles color sergeant that be av e comp ny a hard hard man wid a torment av a wife. you ve the head av a drown man on your shoulder sez he. an you re goin where you ll get a bad wan. come back sez he. let me go sez i. i ve throw my luck over the wall wid my own hand. then that s not the way to get ut back again sez he. have out wid your throuble ye fool bhoy. an i tould him how the matther be. 
he suck in his low lip. you ve be thrapped sez he. ju sheehy wud be the betther for a man s name to hers a soon a can. an ye think ye d put the comether on her that s the natural vanity of the baste. terence you re a big bear fool but you re not bad enough to marry into that comp ny. if you say anythin an for all your protestation i m sure ye do or do not which be bad eat ut all lie like the father of all lie but come out av ut free av judy. do i not know what ut be to marry a woman that be the very spit an image av judy whin she be young. i m gettin old an i ve larnt patience but you terence you d raise hand on judy an kill her in a year. never mind if dinah give you the go you ve desarved ut. never mind if the whole reg mint laugh you all day. get shut av judy an her mother. they can t dhrag you to church but if they do they ll dhrag you to hell. go back to your quarter and lie down sez he. thin over his shoulder you must ha do with thim. 
next day i wint to see dinah but there be no tucker in me a i walk. i know the throuble wud come soon enough widout any handlin av mine an i dread ut sore. 
i hear judy callin me but i hild straight on to the shadds quarthers an dinah wud ha kiss me but i put her back. 
whin all s say darlin sez i you can give ut me if ye will tho i misdoubt twill be so easy to come by then. 
i have scarce begin to put the explanation into shape before judy an her mother come to the door. i think there be a veranda but i m forgettin. 
will ye not step in. sez dinah pretty and polite though the shadds have no dealin s with the sheehys. old mother shadd look up quick an she be the fust to see the throuble. for dinah be her daughter. 
i m press for time to day sez judy a bould a brass. an i ve only come for terence my promust man. ti strange to find him here the day afther the day. 
dinah look at me a though i have hit her an i answer straight. 
there be some nonsinse last night at the sheehys quarthers an judy s carryin on the joke darlin sez i. 
at the sheehys quarthers. sez dinah very slow an judy cut in wid. he be there from nine till ten dinah shadd an the betther half av that time i be sittin on his knee dinah shadd. ye may look and ye may look an ye may look me up an down but ye win t look away that terence be my promust man terence darlin ti time for u to be comin home. 
dinah shadd niver say word to judy. ye leave me at half past eight she sez to me an i niver think that ye d leave me for judy promise or no promise. go back wid her you that have to be fetch by a girl. i m do with you sez she and she run into her own room her mother followin. so i be alone wid those two woman and at liberty to spake my sentiment. 
judy sheehy sez i if you make a fool av me betune the light you shall not do ut in the day. i niver promise you word or line. 
you lie sez ould mother sheehy an may ut choke you waere you stand. she be far go in dhrink. 
an tho ut choke me where i stud i d not change sez i. go home judy. i take shame for a decent girl like you dhraggin your mother out bareheaded on this errand. hear now and have ut for an answer. i give my word to dinah shadd yesterday an more blame to me i be wid you last night talkin nonsinse but nothin more. you ve choose to thry to hould me on ut. i will not be hold thereby for anythin in the world. be that enough. 
judy wint pink all over. an i wish you joy av the perjury sez she duckin a curtsey. you ve lose a woman that would ha wear her hand to the bone for your pleasure. an deed terence ye be not thrapped. lascelles must ha speak plain to her. i be such a dinah be deed i be. ye ve lose a fool av a girl that ll niver look at you again an ye ve lose what ye niver have your common honesty. if you manage your men a you manage your love makin small wondher they call you the bad corp ril in the comp ny. come away mother sez she. 
but divil a fut would the ould woman budge. d you hould by that. sez she peerin up under her thick grey eyebrow. 
ay an wud sez i tho dinah give me the go twinty time. i ll have no thruck with you or yours sez i. take your child away ye shameless woman. 
an be i shameless. sez she bringin her hand up above her head. thin what be you ye lyin schamin weak kneed dhirty souled son av a sutler. be i shameless. who put the open shame on me an my child that we shud go beggin through the line in the broad daylight for the break word of a man. double portion of my shame be on you terence mulvaney that think yourself so strong. by mary and the saint by blood and water an by ivry sorrow that come into the world since the beginnin the black blight fall on you and yours so that you may niver be free from pain for another when ut s not your own. may your heart bleed in your breast drop by drop wid all your friend laughin at the bleedin. strong you think yourself. may your strength be a curse to you to dhrive you into the divil s hand against your own will. clear eye you be. may your eye see dear evry step av the dark path you take till the hot cindhers av hell put thim out. may the ragin dry thirst in my own ould bone go to you that you shall niver pas bottle full nor glass empty. god preserve the light av your onder standin to you my jewel av a bhoy that ye may niver forget what you mint to be an do whin you re wallowin in the muck. may ye see the betther and follow the bad a long a there s breath in your body. an may ye die quick in a strange land. watchin your death before ut take you an onable to stir hand or foot. 
i hear a scufflin in the room behind and thin dinah shadd s hand dhropped into mine like a rise leaf into a muddy road. 
the half av that i ll take sez she an more too if i can. go home ye silly talkin woman go home an confess. 
come away. come away. sez judy pullin her mother by the shawl. twas none av terence s fault. for the love av mary stop the talkin. 
an you. say ould mother sheehy spinnin round forninst dinah. will ye take the half av that man s load. stand off from him dinah shadd before he take you down too you that look to be a quarther master sergeant s wife in five year. you look too high child. you shall wash for the quarther master sergeant whin he plases to give you the job out av charity. but a privit s wife you shall be to the end an evry sorrow of a privit s wife you shall know and nivir a joy but wan that shall go from you like the run tide from a rock. the pain av bearin you shall know but niver the pleasure av give the breast. an you shall put away a man child into the common grind wid never a priest to say a prayer over him an on that man child ye shall think ivry day av your life. think long dinah shadd for you ll niver have another tho you pray till your knee be bleedin. the mother av childer shall mock you behind your back when you re wring over the washtub. you shall know what ut be to help a dhrunken husband home an see him go to the gyard room. will that plase you dinah shadd that win t be see talkin to my daughter. you shall talk to bad than judy before all s over. the sergints wife shall look down on you contemptuous daughter av a sergint an you shall cover ut all up wid a smile face when your heart s burstin. stand off av him dinah shadd for i ve put the black curse of shielygh upon him an his own mouth shall make ut good. 
she pitch forward on her head an begin foamin at the mouth. dinah shadd run out wid water an judy dhragged the ould woman into the veranda till she sit up. 
i m old an forlore she sez thremblin an cryin and ti like i say a dale more than i mane. 
when you re able to walk go say ould mother shadd. this house ha no place for the like av you that have curse my daughter. 
eyah. say the ould woman. hard word break no bone an dinah shadd ll keep the love av her husband till my bone be green corn judy darlin i misremember what i come here for. can you lend u the bottom av a taycup av tay mr. shadd. 
but judy dhragged her off cryin a tho her heart wud break. an dinah shadd an i in ten minute we have forget ut all. 
then why do you remember it now. say i. 
be ut like i d forget. ivry word that wicked ould woman speak fell thrue in my life aftherward an i cud ha stud ut all stud ut all excipt when my little shadd be bear. that be on the line av march three month afther the regiment be take with cholera. we be betune umballa an kalka thin an i be on picket. whin i come off duty the woman show me the child an ut turn on ut side an die a i look. we bury him by the road an father victor be a day s march behind wid the heavy baggage so the comp ny captain read a prayer. an since then i ve be a childless man an all else that ould mother sheehy put upon me an dinah shadd. what do you think sorr. 
i think a good deal but it seem good then to reach out for mulvaney s hand. the demonstration nearly cost me the use of three finger. whatever he know of his weakness mulvaney be entirely ignorant of his strength. 
but what do you think. he repeat a i be straighten out the crush finger. 
my reply be drown in yell and outcry from the next fire where ten men be shout for orth ri privit orth ri mistah or ther ri. deah boy cap n orth ri field marshal orth ri stanley you pen north o pop come ere to your own comp ny. and the cockney who have be delight another audience with recondite and rabelaisian yarn be shoot down among his admirer by the major force. 
you ve crumple my dress shirt orrid say he an i shan t sing no more to this ere bloomin drawin room. 
learoyd rouse by the confusion uncoil himself creep behind ortheris and sling him aloft on his shoulder. 
sing ye bloomin hummin bird. say he and ortheris beat time on learoyd s skull deliver himself in the raucous voice of the ratcliffe highway of this song. 
my girl she give me the go onst when i be a london lad an i go on the drink for a fortnight an then i go to the bad. the queen she give me a shillin to fight for er over the sea. but guv ment build me a fever trap an injia give me disease. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you eed what a girl say an don t you go for the beer. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m here. 
i fire a shoot at a afghan the beggar e fire again an i lay on my bed with a ole in my ed an miss the next campaign. i up with my gun at a burman who carry a bloomin dah_ but the cartridge stick and the bay nit bruk an all i get be the scar. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you aim at a afghan when you stand on the sky line clear. an don t you go for a burman if none o your friend be near. 
i serve my time for a corp ral an wet my stripe with pop for i go on the bend with a intimate friend an finish the night in the shop. i serve my time for a sergeant. the colonel e sez no. the most you ll see be a full c. b. [ ] an. very next night twas so. 
[footnote. confine to barrack. ]. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you go for a corp ral unless your ed be clear. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m ere. 
i ve taste the luck o the army in barrack an camp an clink an i lose my tip through the bloomin trip along o the woman an drink. i m down at the heel o my service an when i be lay on the shelf my very wust friend from begin to end by the blood of a mouse be myself. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you eed what a girl say an don t you go for the beer. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m ere. 
ay listen to our little man now singin an shoutin a tho trouble have niver touch him. d you remember when he go mad with the homesickness. say mulvaney recall a never to be forget season when ortheris wad through the deep water of affliction and behave abominably. but he s talkin bitter truth though. eyah. 
my very bad frind from beginnin to ind by the blood av a mouse be mesilf. 
* * * * *. 
when i wake i saw mulvaney the night dew gemming his moustache lean on his rifle at picket lonely a prometheus on his rock with i know not what vulture tear his liver. 
the story of muhammad din. 
who be the happy man. he that see in his own house at home little child crown with dust leap and fall and cry. munichandra_ translate by professor peterson. 
the polo ball be an old one scar chip and dinted. it stand on the mantelpiece among the pipe stem which imam din khitmatgar_ be clean for me. 
doe the heaven bear want this ball. say imam din deferentially. 
the heaven bear set no particular store by it. but of what use be a polo ball to a khitmatgar. 
by your honor s favor i have a little son. he ha see this ball and desire it to play with. i do not want it for myself. 
no one would for an instant accuse portly old imam din of want to play with polo ball. he carry out the batter thing into the veranda. and there follow a hurricane of joyful squeak a patter of small foot and the thud thud thud of the ball roll along the grind. evidently the little son have be wait outside the door to secure his treasure. but how have he manage to see that polo ball. 
next day come back from office half an hour early than usual i be aware of a small figure in the din room a tiny plump figure in a ridiculously inadequate shirt which come perhaps half way down the tubby stomach. it wander round the room thumb in mouth croon to itself a it take stock of the picture. undoubtedly this be the little son. 
he have no business in my room of course. but be so deeply absorb in his discovery that he never notice me in the doorway. i step into the room and startle him nearly into a fit. he sit down on the grind with a gasp. his eye open and his mouth follow suit. i know what be come and flee follow by a long dry howl which reach the servant quarter far more quickly than any command of mine have ever do. in ten second imam din be in the din room. then despair sob arise and i return to find imam din admonish the small sinner who be use most of his shirt a a handkerchief. 
this boy say imam din judicially be a budmash a big budmash. he will without doubt go to the jail khana for his behavior. renew yell from the penitent and an elaborate apology to myself from imam din. 
tell the baby say i that the sahib be not angry and take him away. imam din convey my forgiveness to the offender who have now gather all his shirt round his neck stringwise and the yell subside into a sob. the two set off for the door. his name say imam din a though the name be part of the crime be muhammad din and he be a budmash. free from present danger muhammad din turn round in his father s arm and say gravely it be true that my name be muhammad din tahib_ but i be not a budmash. i be a man. 
from that day date my acquaintance with muhammad din. never again do he come into my din room but on the neutral grind of the garden we greet each other with much state though our conversation be confine to _talaam tahib_ from his side and _salaam muhammad din_ from mine. daily on my return from office the little white shirt and the fat little body use to rise from the shade of the creeper cover trellis where they have be hide. and daily i check my horse here that my salutation might not be slur over or give unseemly. 
muhammad din never have any companion. he use to trot about the compound in and out of the castor oil bush on mysterious errand of his own. one day i stumble upon some of his handiwork far down the ground. he have half bury the polo ball in dust and stick six shrivel old marigold flower in a circle round it. 
outside that circle again be a rude square trace out in bit of red brick alternate with fragment of break china. the whole bound by a little bank of dust. the water man from the well curb put in a plea for the small architect say that it be only the play of a baby and do not much disfigure my garden. 
heaven know that i have no intention of touch the child s work then or late. but that even a stroll through the garden bring me unawares full on it. so that i trample before i know marigold head dust bank and fragment of break soap dish into confusion past all hope of mend. next morning i come upon muhammad din cry softly to himself over the ruin i have work. some one have cruelly tell him that the sahib be very angry with him for spoil the garden and have scatter his rubbish use bad language the while. muhammad din labor for an hour at efface every trace of the dust bank and pottery fragment and it be with a tearful and apologetic face that he say _talaam tahib_ when i come home from office. a hasty inquiry result in imam din inform muhammad din that by my singular favor he be permit to disport himself a he please. whereat the child take heart and fell to trace the grind plan of an edifice which be to eclipse the marigold polo ball creation. 
for some month the chubby little eccentricity revolve in his humble orbit among the castor oil bush and in the dust. always fashion magnificent palace from stale flower throw away by the bearer smooth water wear pebble bit of break glass and feather pull i fancy from my fowl always alone and always croon to himself. 
a gaily spot sea shell be drop one day close to the last of his little building. and i look that muhammad din should build something more than ordinarily splendid on the strength of it. nor be i disappoint. he meditate for the good part of an hour and his croon rise to a jubilant song. then he begin trace in the dust. it would certainly be a wondrous palace this one for it be two yard long and a yard broad in grind plan. but the palace be never complete. 
next day there be no muhammad din at the head of the carriage drive and no _talaam tahib_ to welcome my return. i have grow accustom to the greet and it omission trouble me. next day imam din tell me that the child be suffer slightly from fever and need quinine. he get the medicine and an english doctor. 
they have no stamen these brat say the doctor a he leave imam din s quarter. 
a week late though i would have give much to have avoid it i meet on the road to the mussulman bury grind imam din accompany by one other friend carry in his arm wrap in a white cloth all that be leave of little muhammad din. 
in flood time. 
tweed say tae till. what gar ye rin sae still. till say tae tweed. though ye rin wi speed an i rin slaw yet where ye droon ae man i droon twa. 
there be no get over the river to night sahib. they say that a bullock cart ha be wash down already and the ekka that go over a half hour before you come ha not yet reach the far side. be the sahib in haste. i will drive the ford elephant in to show him. oh mahout there in the shed. bring out ram pershad and if he will face the current good. an elephant never lie sahib and ram pershad be separate from his friend kala nag. he too wish to cross to the far side. well do. well do. my king. go half way across mahoutji_ and see what the river say. well do ram pershad. pearl among elephant go into the river. hit him on the head fool. be the goad make only to scratch thy own fat back with bastard. strike. strike. what be the boulder to thee ram pershad my rustum my mountain of strength. go in. go in. 
no sahib. it be useless. you can hear him trumpet. he be tell kala nag that he cannot come over. see. he ha swing round and be shake his head. he be no fool. he know what the barhwi mean when it be angry. aha. indeed thou art no fool my child. salaam_ ram pershad bahadur. take him under the tree mahout_ and see that he get his spice. well do thou chief among tusker. salaam to the sirkar and go to sleep. 
what be to be do. the sahib must wait till the river go down. it will shrink to morrow morning if god plea or the day after at the late. now why doe the sahib get so angry. i be his servant. before god i do not create this stream. what can i do. my hut and all that be therein be at the service of the sahib and it be begin to rain. come away my lord how will the river go down for your throw abuse at it. in the old day the english people be not thus. the fire carriage ha make them soft. in the old day when they drave behind horse by day or by night they say naught if a river bar the way or a carriage sit down in the mud. it be the will of god not like a fire carriage which go and go and go and would go though all the devil in the land hang on to it tail. the fire carriage hath spoil the english people. after all what be a day lose or for that matter what be two day. be the sahib go to his own wed that he be so mad with haste. ho. ho. ho. i be an old man and see few sahib. forgive me if i have forget the respect that be due to them. the sahib be not angry. 
his own wed. ho. ho. ho. the mind of an old man be like the numah tree. fruit bud blossom and the dead leaf of all the year of the past flourish together. old and new and that which be go out of remembrance all three be there. sit on the bedstead sahib and drink milk. or would the sahib in truth care to drink my tobacco. it be good. it be the tobacco of nuklao. my son who be in service there send it to me. drink then sahib if you know how to handle the tube. the sahib take it like a musalman. wah. wah. where do he learn that. his own wed. ho. ho. ho. the sahib say that there be no wed in the matter at all. now be it likely that the sahib would speak true talk to me who be only a black man. small wonder then that he be in haste. thirty year have i beat the gong at this ford but never have i see a sahib in such haste. thirty year sahib. that be a very long time. thirty year ago this ford be on the track of the bunjaras_ and i have see two thousand pack bullock cross in one night. now the rail ha come and the fire carriage say buz buz buz_ and a hundred lakh of maund slide across that big bridge. it be very wonderful. but the ford be lonely now that there be no bunjaras to camp under the tree. 
nay do not trouble to look at the sky without. it will rain till the dawn. listen. the boulder be talk to night in the bed of the river. hear them. they would be husk your bone sahib have you try to cross. see i will shut the door and no rain can enter. wahi. ahi. ugh. thirty year on the bank of the ford. an old man be i and where be the oil for the lamp. 
* * * * *. 
your pardon but because of my year i sleep no sound than a dog. and you move to the door. look then sahib. look and listen. a full half ko from bank to bank be the stream now you can see it under the star and there be ten foot of water therein. it will not shrink because of the anger in your eye and it will not be quiet on account of your curse. which be loud sahib your voice or the voice of the river. call to it perhaps it will be ashamed. lie down and sleep afresh sahib. i know the anger of the barhwi when there ha fall rain in the foot hill. i swim the flood once on a night tenfold bad than this and by the favor of god i be release from death when i have come to the very gate thereof. 
may i tell the tale. very good talk. i will fill the pipe anew. 
thirty year ago it be when i be a young man and have but newly come to the ford. i be strong then and the bunjaras have no doubt when i say this ford be clear. i have toil all night up to my shoulder blade in run water amid a hundred bullock mad with fear and have bring them across lose not a hoof. when all be do i fetch the shiver men and they give me for reward the pick of their cattle the bell bullock of the drive. so great be the honor in which i be hold. but to day when the rain fall and the river rise i creep into my hut and whimper like a dog. my strength be go from me. i be an old man and the fire carriage ha make the ford desolate. they be wont to call me the strong one of the barhwi. 
behold my face sahib it be the face of a monkey. and my arm it be the arm of an old woman. i swear to you sahib that a woman ha love this face and ha rest in the hollow of this arm. twenty year ago sahib. believe me this be true talk twenty year ago. 
come to the door and look across. can you see a thin fire very far away down the stream. that be the temple fire in the shrine of hanuman of the village of pateera. north under the big star be the village itself but it be hide by a bend of the river. be that far to swim sahib. would you take off your clothe and adventure. yet i swim to pateera not once but many time. and there be mugger in the river too. 
love know no caste. else why should i a musalman and the son of a musalman have seek a hindu woman a widow of the hindu the sister of the headman of pateera. but it be even so. they of the headman s household come on a pilgrimage to muttra when she be but newly a bride. silver tire be upon the wheel of the bullock cart and silken curtain hide the woman. sahib i make no haste in their conveyance for the wind part the curtain and i saw her. when they return from pilgrimage the boy that be her husband have die and i saw her again in the bullock cart. by god these hindu be fool. what be it to me whether she be hindu or jain scavenger leper or whole. i would have marry her and make her a home by the ford. the seventh of the nine bar say that a man may not marry one of the idolater. be that truth. both shiah and sunni say that a musalman may not marry one of the idolater. be the sahib a priest then that he know so much. i will tell him something that he doe not know. there be neither shiah nor sunni forbid nor idolater in love. and the nine bar be but nine little fagot that the flame of love utterly burn away. in truth i would have take her. but what could i do. the headman would have send his men to break my head with stave. i be not i be not afraid of any five men. but against half a village who can prevail. 
therefore it be my custom these thing have be arrange between u twain to go by night to the village of pateera and there we meet among the crop. no man know aught of the matter. behold now. i be wont to cross here skirt the jungle to the river bend where the railway bridge be and thence across the elbow of land to pateera. the light of the shrine be my guide when the night be dark. that jungle near the river be very full of snake little karaits that sleep on the sand and moreover her brother would have slay me have they find me in the crop. but none know none know save she and i. and the blow sand of the river bed cover the track of my foot. in the hot month it be an easy thing to pas from the ford to pateera and in the first rain when the river rise slowly it be an easy thing also. i set the strength of my body against the strength of the stream and nightly i eat in my hut here and drink at pateera yonder. she have say that one hirnam singh a thief have seek her and he be of a village up the river but on the same bank. all sikh be dog and they have refuse in their folly that good gift of god tobacco. i be ready to destroy hirnam singh that ever he have come nigh her. and the more because he have swear to her that she have a lover and that he would lie in wait and give the name to the headman unless she go away with him. what cur be these sikh. 
after that news i swim always with a little sharp knife in my belt and evil would it have be for a man have he stay me i know not the face of hirnam singh but i would have kill any who come between me and her. 
upon a night in the begin of the rain i be mind to go across to pateera albeit the river be angry. now the nature of the barhwi be this sahib. in twenty breath it come down from the hill a wall three foot high and i have see it between the light of a fire and the cook of a chupatty_ grow from a runnel to a sister of the jumna. 
when i leave this bank there be a shoal a half mile down and i make shift to fetch it and draw breath there ere go forward. for i felt the hand of the river heavy upon my heel. yet what will a young man not do for love s sake. there be but little light from the star and midway to the shoal a branch of the stink deodar tree brush my mouth a i swim. that be a sign of heavy rain in the foot hill and beyond for the deodar be a strong tree not easily shake from the hillside. i make haste the river aid me but ere i have touch the shoal the pulse of the stream beat a it be within me and around and behold the shoal be go and i ride high on the crest of a wave that run from bank to bank. ha the sahib ever be cast into much water that fight and will not let a man use his limb. to me my head upon the water it seem a though there be naught but water to the world s end and the river drave me with it driftwood. a man be a very little thing in the belly of a flood. and this flood though i know it not be the great flood about which men talk still. my liver be dissolve and i lay like a log upon my back in the fear of death. there be live thing in the water cry and howl grievously beast of the forest and cattle and once the voice of a man ask for help. but the rain come and lash the water white and i hear no more save the roar of the boulder below and the roar of the rain above. thus i be whirl down stream wrestle for the breath in me. it be very hard to die when one be young. can the sahib stand here see the railway bridge. look there be the light of the mail train go to peshawur. the bridge be now twenty foot above the river but upon that night the water be roar against the lattice work and against the lattice come i foot first but much driftwood be pile there and upon the pier and i take no great hurt. only the river press me a a strong man press a weak. scarcely could i take hold of the lattice work and crawl to the upper boom. sahib the water be foam across the rail a foot deep. judge therefore what manner of flood it must have be. i could not hear i could not see. i could but lie on the boom and pant for breath. 
after a while the rain cease and there come out in the sky certain new wash star and by their light i saw that there be no end to the black water a far a the eye could travel and the water have rise upon the rail. there be dead beast in the driftwood on the pier and others catch by the neck in the lattice work and others not yet drown who strive to find a foothold on the lattice work buffalo and kine and wild pig and deer one or two and snake and jackal past all count. their body be black upon the leave side of the bridge but the small of them be force through the lattice work and whirl down stream. 
thereafter the star die and the rain come down afresh and the river rise yet more and i felt the bridge begin to stir under me a a man stir in his sleep ere he wake. but i be not afraid sahib. i swear to you that i be not afraid though i have no power in my limb. i know that i should not die till i have see her once more. but i be very cold and i felt that the bridge must go. 
there be a tremble in the water such a tremble a go before the come of a great wave and the bridge lift it flank to the rush of that come so that the right lattice dip under water and the leave rise clear. on my beard sahib i be speak god s truth. a a mirzapore stone boat careen to the wind so the barhwi bridge turn. thus and in no other manner. 
i slide from the boom into deep water and behind me come the wave of the wrath of the river. i hear it voice and the scream of the middle part of the bridge a it move from the pier and sink and i know no more till i rise in the middle of the great flood. i put forth my hand to swim and lo. it fell upon the knot hair of the head of a man. he be dead for no one but i the strong one of barhwi could have live in that race. he have be dead full two day for he ride high wallow and be an aid to me i laugh then know for a surety that i should yet see her and take no harm. and i twist my finger in the hair of the man for i be far spend and together we go down the stream he the dead and i the live. lack that help i should have sink. the cold be in my marrow and my flesh be rib and sodden on my bone. but he have no fear who have know the uttermost of the power of the river. and i let him go where he choose. at last we come into the power of a side current that set to the right bank and i strive with my foot to draw with it. but the dead man swing heavily in the whirl and i fear that some branch have strike him and that he would sink. the top of the tamarisk brush my knee so i know we be come into flood water above the crop and after i let down my leg and felt bottom the ridge of a field and after the dead man stay upon a knoll under a fig tree and i draw my body from the water rejoice. 
doe the sahib know whither the backwash of the flood have bear me. to the knoll which be the eastern boundary mark of the village of pateera. no other place. i draw the dead man up on the grass for the service that he have do me and also because i know not whether i should need him again. then i go cry thrice like a jackal to the appoint place which be near the byre of the headman s house. but my love be already there weep. she fear that the flood have sweep my hut at the barhwi ford. when i come softly through the ankle deep water she think it be a ghost and would have flee but i put my arm round her and i be no ghost in those day though i be an old man now. ho. ho. dry corn in truth. maize without juice. ho. ho. [footnote. i grieve to say that the warden of barhwi ford be responsible here for two very bad pun in the vernacular. r. k. ]. 
i tell her the story of the break of the barhwi bridge and she say that i be great than mortal man for none may cross the barhwi in full flood and i have see what never man have see before. hand in hand we go to the knoll where the dead lay and i show her by what help i have make the ford. she look also upon the body under the star for the latter end of the night be clear and hide her face in her hand cry. it be the body of hirnam singh. i say. the swine be of more use dead than live my beloved and she say. surely for he ha save the dear life in the world to my love. none the le he cannot stay here for that would bring shame upon me. the body be not a gunshot from her door. 
then say i roll the body with my hand. god hath judge between u hirnam singh that thy blood might not be upon my head. now whether i have do thee a wrong in keep thee from the burn ghat do thou and the crow settle together. so i cast him adrift into the flood water and he be draw out to the open ever wag his thick black beard like a priest under the pulpit board. and i saw no more of hirnam singh. 
before the break of the day we two part and i move toward such of the jungle a be not flood. with the full light i saw what i have do in the darkness and the bone of my body be loosen in my flesh for there run two ko of rag water between the village of pateera and the tree of the far bank and in the middle the pier of the barhwi bridge show like break teeth in the jaw of an old man. nor be there any life upon the water neither bird nor boat but only an army of drown thing bullock and horse and men and the river be red than blood from the clay of the foot hill. never have i see such a flood never since that year have i see the like and o sahib no man live have do what i have do. there be no return for me that day. not for all the land of the headman would i venture a second time without the shield of darkness that cloak danger. i go a ko up the river to the house of a blacksmith say that the flood have sweep me from my hut and they give me food. seven day i stay with the blacksmith till a boat come and i return to my house. there be no trace of wall or roof or floor naught but a patch of slimy mud. judge therefore sahib how far the river must have rise. 
it be write that i should not die either in my house or in the heart of the barhwi or under the wreck of the barhwi bridge for god send down hirnam singh two day dead though i know not how the man die to be my buoy and support. hirnam singh ha be in hell these twenty year and the think of that night must be the flower of his torment. 
listen sahib. the river ha change it voice. it be go to sleep before the dawn to which there be yet one hour. with the light it will come down afresh. how do i know. have i be here thirty year without know the voice of the river a a father know the voice of his son. every moment it be talk le angrily. i swear that there will be no danger for one hour or perhaps two. i cannot answer for the morning. be quick sahib. i will call ram pershad and he will not turn back this time. be the paulin tightly cord upon all the baggage. oh mahout with a mud head the elephant for the sahib and tell them on the far side that there will be no cross after daylight. 
money. nay sahib. i be not of that kind. no not even to give sweetmeat to the baby folk. my house look you be empty and i be an old man. 
dutt_ ram pershad. dutt. dutt. dutt. good luck go with you sahib. 
my own true ghost story. 
a i come through the desert thus it be a i come through the desert. 
the city of dreadful night. 
somewhere in the other world where there be book and picture and play and shop window to look at and thousand of men who spend their life in build up all four life a gentleman who write real story about the real inside of people. and his name be mr. walter besant. but he will insist upon treat his ghost he ha publish half a workshopful of them with levity. he make his ghost seer talk familiarly and in some case flirt outrageously with the phantom. you may treat anything from a viceroy to a vernacular paper with levity. but you must behave reverently toward a ghost and particularly an indian one. 
there be in this land ghost who take the form of fat cold pobby corps and hide in tree near the roadside till a traveler pass. then they drop upon his neck and remain. there be also terrible ghost of woman who have die in child bed. these wander along the pathway at dusk or hide in the crop near a village and call seductively. but to answer their call be death in this world and the next. their foot be turn backward that all sober men may recognize them. there be ghost of little child who have be throw into well. these haunt well curb and the fringe of jungle and wail under the star or catch woman by the wrist and beg to be take up and carry. these and the corpse ghost however be only vernacular article and do not attack sahib. no native ghost ha yet be authentically report to have frighten an englishman. but many english ghost have scar the life out of both white and black. 
nearly every other station own a ghost. there be say to be two at simla not count the woman who blow the bellow at syree dk bungalow on the old road. mussoorie ha a house haunt of a very lively thing. a white lady be suppose to do night watchman round a house in lahore. dalhousie say that one of her house repeat on autumn evening all the incident of a horrible horse and precipice accident. murree ha a merry ghost and now that she ha be sweep by cholera will have room for a sorrowful one. there be officer quarter in mian mir whose door open without reason and whose furniture be guarantee to creak not with the heat of june but with the weight of invisibles who come to lounge in the chair. peshawur posse house that none will willingly rent. and there be something not fever wrong with a big bungalow in allahabad. the old province simply bristle with haunt house and march phantom army along their main thoroughfare. 
some of the dk bungalow on the grand trunk road have handy little cemetery in their compound witness to the change and chance of this mortal life in the day when men drive from calcutta to the northwest. these bungalow be objectionable place to put up in. they be generally very old always dirty while the khansamah be a ancient a the bungalow. he either chatter senilely or fall into the long trance of age. in both mood he be useless. if you get angry with him he refer to some sahib dead and bury these thirty year and say that when he be in that sahib s service not a khansamah in the province could touch him. then he jabber and mow and tremble and fidget among the dish and you repent of your irritation. 
in these dk bungalow ghost be most likely to be find and when find they should be make a note of. not long ago it be my business to live in dk bungalow. i never inhabit the same house for three night run and grow to be learn in the breed. i live in government build one with red brick wall and rail ceiling an inventory of the furniture post in every room and an excite snake at the threshold to give welcome. i live in convert one old house officiate a dk bungalow where nothing be in it proper place and there wasn t even a fowl for dinner. i live in second hand palace where the wind blow through open work marble tracery just a uncomfortably a through a break pane. i live in dk bungalow where the last entry in the visitor book be fifteen month old and where they slash off the curry kid s head with a sword. it be my good luck to meet all sort of men from sober travel missionary and deserter fly from british regiment to drunken loafer who throw whiskey bottle at all who pass. and my still great good fortune just to escape a maternity case. see that a fair proportion of the tragedy of our life out here act itself in dk bungalow i wonder that i have meet no ghost. a ghost that would voluntarily hang about a dk bungalow would be mad of course. but so many men have die mad in dk bungalow that there must be a fair percentage of lunatic ghost. 
in due time i find my ghost or ghost rather for there be two of them. up till that hour i have sympathize with mr. besant s method of handle them a show in _the strange case of mr. lucraft and other story. i be now in the opposition. 
we will call the bungalow katmal dk bungalow. but that be the small part of the horror. a man with a sensitive hide ha no right to sleep in dk bungalow. he should marry. katmal dk bungalow be old and rotten and unrepaired. the floor be of wear brick the wall be filthy and the window be nearly black with grime. it stand on a bypath largely use by native sub deputy assistant of all kind from finance to forest. but real sahib be rare. the khansamah_ who be nearly bend double with old age say so. 
when i arrive there be a fitful undecided rain on the face of the land accompany by a restless wind and every gust make a noise like the rattle of dry bone in the stiff toddy palm outside. the khansamah completely lose his head on my arrival. he have serve a sahib once. do i know that sahib. he give me the name of a well know man who ha be bury for more than a quarter of a century and show me an ancient daguerreotype of that man in his prehistoric youth. i have see a steel engrave of him at the head of a double volume of memoir a month before and i felt ancient beyond tell. 
the day shut in and the khansamah go to get me food. he do not go through the pretence of call it _khana_ man s victual. he say _ratub_ and that mean among other thing grub dog s ration. there be no insult in his choice of the term. he have forget the other word i suppose. 
while he be cut up the dead body of animal i settle myself down after explore the dk bungalow. there be three room beside my own which be a corner kennel each give into the other through dingy white door fasten with long iron bar. the bungalow be a very solid one but the partition wall of the room be almost jerry build in their flimsiness. every step or bang of a trunk echo from my room down the other three and every footfall come back tremulously from the far wall. for this reason i shut the door. there be no lamp only candle in long glass shade. an oil wick be set in the bath room. 
for bleak unadulterated misery that dk bungalow be the bad of the many that i have ever set foot in. there be no fireplace and the window would not open. so a brazier of charcoal would have be useless. the rain and the wind splash and gurgle and moan round the house and the toddy palm rattle and roar. half a dozen jackal go through the compound sing and a hyena stand afar off and mock them. a hyena would convince a sadducee of the resurrection of the dead the bad sort of dead. then come the ratub a curious meal half native and half english in composition with the old khansamah babble behind my chair about dead and go english people and the wind blow candle play shadow bo peep with the bed and the mosquito curtain. it be just the sort of dinner and even to make a man think of every single one of his past sin and of all the others that he intend to commit if he live. 
sleep for several hundred reason be not easy. the lamp in the bath room throw the most absurd shadow into the room and the wind be begin to talk nonsense. 
just when the reason be drowsy with blood suck i hear the regular let u take and heave him over grunt of doolie bearer in the compound. first one doolie come in then a second and then a third. i hear the doolies dump on the grind and the shutter in front of my door shake. that s some one try to come in i say. but no one speak and i persuade myself that it be the gusty wind. the shutter of the room next to mine be attack fling back and the inner door open that s some sub deputy assistant i say and he ha bring his friend with him. now they ll talk and spit and smoke for an hour. 
but there be no voice and no footstep no one be put his luggage into the next room. the door shut and i thank providence that i be to be leave in peace. but i be curious to know where the doolies have go. i get out of bed and look into the darkness. there be never a sign of a doolie. just a i be get into bed again i hear in the next room the sound that no man in his sens can possibly mistake the whir of a billiard ball down the length of the slate when the striker be string for break. no other sound be like it. a minute afterward there be another whir and i get into bed. i be not frighten indeed i be not. i be very curious to know what have become of the doolies. i jump into bed for that reason. 
next minute i hear the double click of a cannon and my hair sit up. it be a mistake to say that hair stand up. the skin of the head tighten and you can feel a faint prickly bristle all ever the scalp. that be the hair sit up. 
there be a whir and a click and both sound could only have be make by one thing a billiard ball. i argue the matter out at great length with myself. and the more i argue the le probable it seem that one bed one table and two chair all the furniture of the room next to mine could so exactly duplicate the sound of a game of billiards. after another cannon a three cushion one to judge by the whir i argue no more. i have find my ghost and would have give world to have escape from that dk bungalow. i listen and with each listen the game grow clear. there be whir on whir and click on click. sometimes there be a double click and a whir and another click. beyond any sort of doubt people be play billiards in the next room. and the next room be not big enough to hold a billiard table. 
between the pause of the wind i hear the game go forward stroke after stroke. i try to believe that i could not hear voice. but that attempt be a failure. 
do you know what fear be. not ordinary fear of insult injury or death but abject quiver dread of something that you cannot see fear that dry the inside of the mouth and half of the throat fear that make you sweat on the palm of the hand and gulp in order to keep the uvula at work. this be a fine fear a great cowardice and must be felt to be appreciate. the very improbability of billiards in a dk bungalow prove the reality of the thing. no man drink or sober could imagine a game a billiards or invent the spit crack of a screw cannon. 
a severe course of dk bungalow ha this disadvantage it breed infinite credulity. if a man say to a confirm dk bungalow haunter. there be a corpse in the next room and there s a mad girl in the next but one and the woman and man on that camel have just elope from a place sixty mile away the hearer would not disbelieve because he would know that nothing be too wild grotesque or horrible to happen in a dk bungalow. 
this credulity unfortunately extend to ghost. a rational person fresh from his own house would have turn on his side and sleep. i do not. so surely a i be give up a a bad carcass by the score of thing in the bed because the bulk of my blood be in my heart so surely do i hear every stroke of a long game at billiards play in the echo room behind the iron bar door. my dominant fear be that the player might want a marker. it be an absurd fear. because creature who could play in the dark would be above such superfluity. i only know that that be my terror. and it be real. 
after a long long while the game stop and the door bang i sleep because i be dead tire. otherwise i should have prefer to have keep awake. not for everything in asia would i have drop the door bar and peer into the dark of the next room. 
when the morning come i consider that i have do well and wisely and inquire for the mean of departure. 
by the way khansamah_ i say what be those three doolies do in my compound in the night. 
there be no doolies say the khansamah. 
i go into the next room and the daylight stream through the open door. i be immensely brave. i would at that hour have play black pool with the owner of the big black pool down below. 
ha this place always be a dk bungalow. i ask. 
no say the khansamah. ten or twenty year ago i have forget how long it be a billiard room. 
a how much. 
a billiard room for the sahib who build the railway. i be khansamah then in the big house where all the railway sahib live and i use to come across with brandy shrab. these three room be all one and they hold a big table on which the sahib play every even. but the sahib be all dead now and the railway run you say nearly to kabul. 
do you remember anything about the sahib. 
it be long ago but i remember that one sahib a fat man and always angry be play here one night and he say to me. mangal khan brandy pani do_ and i fill the glass and he bend over the table to strike and his head fell low and low till it hit the table and his spectacle come off and when we the sahib and i myself run to lift him he be dead. i help to carry him out. aha he be a strong sahib. but he be dead and i old mangal khan be still live by your favor. 
that be more than enough. i have my ghost a first hand authenticate article. i would write to the society for psychical research i would paralyze the empire with the news. but i would first of all put eighty mile of assess crop land between myself and that dk bungalow before nightfall. the society might send their regular agent to investigate late on. 
i go into my own room and prepare to pack after note down the fact of the case. a i smoke i hear the game begin again with a miss in balk this time for the whir be a short one. 
the door be open and i could see into the room. click click. that be a cannon. i enter the room without fear for there be sunlight within and a fresh breeze without. the unseen game be go on at a tremendous rate. and well it might when a restless little rat be run to and fro inside the dingy ceiling cloth and a piece of loose window sash be make fifty break off the window bolt a it shake in the breeze. 
impossible to mistake the sound of billiard ball. impossible to mistake the whir of a ball over the slate. but i be to be excuse. even when i shut my enlighten eye the sound be marvelously like that of a fast game. 
enter angrily the faithful partner of my sorrow kadir baksh. 
this bungalow be very bad and low caste. no wonder the presence be disturb and be speckle. three set of doolie bearer come to the bungalow late last night when i be sleep outside and say that it be their custom to rest in the room set apart for the english people. what honor ha the khansamah. they try to enter but i tell them to go. no wonder if these oorias have be here that the presence be sorely spot. it be shame and the work of a dirty man. 
kadir baksh do not say that he have take from each gang two anna for rent in advance and then beyond my earshot have beat them with the big green umbrella whose use i could never before divine. but kadir baksh ha no notion of morality. 
there be an interview with the khansamah_ but a he promptly lose his head wrath give place to pity and pity lead to a long conversation in the course of which he put the fat engineer sahib s tragic death in three separate station two of them fifty mile away. the third shift be to calcutta and there the sahib die while drive a dog cart. 
if i have encourage him the khansamah would have wander all through bengal with his corpse. 
i do not go away a soon a i intend. i stay for the night while the wind and the rat and the sash and the window bolt play a ding dong hundred and fifty up. then the wind run out and the billiards stop and i felt that i have ruin my one genuine hall mark ghost story. 
have i only stop at the proper time i could have make anything out of it. 
that be the bitter think of all. 
the big drink draf. 
we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you mu pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yet on a fourp ny bite a a time expire ma a an. 
barrack room ballad. 
an awful thing ha happen. my friend private mulvaney who go home in the serapis_ time expire not very long ago ha come back to india a a civilian. it be all dinah shadd s fault. she could not stand the poky little lodging and she miss her servant abdullah more than word could tell. the fact be that the mulvaneys have be out here too long and have lose touch of england. 
mulvaney know a contractor on one of the new central india line and write to him for some sort of work. the contractor say that if mulvaney could pay the passage he would give him command of a gang of cooly for old sake s sake. the pay be eighty five rupee a month and dinah shadd say that if terence do not accept she would make his life a baste purgathory. therefore the mulvaneys come out a civilian which be a great and terrible fall. though mulvaney try to disguise it by say that he be k nel on the railway line an a consequinshal man. 
he write me an invitation on a tool indent form to visit him. and i come down to the funny little construction bungalow at the side of the line. dinah shadd have plant pea about and about and nature have spread all manner of green stuff round the place. there be no change in mulvaney except the change of clothe which be deplorable but could not be help. he be stand upon his trolly harangue a gang man and his shoulder be a well drill and his big thick chin be a clean shave a ever. 
i m a civilian now say mulvaney. cud you tell that i be iv a martial man. don t answer sorr av you re strainin betune a complimint an a lie. there s no houldin dinah shadd now she s get a house av her own. go inside an dhrink tay out av chiny in the drrrrawin room an thin we ll dhrink like christian undher the tree here. scutt ye naygur folk. there s a sahib come to call on me an that s more than he ll iv do for you onless you run. get out an go on pilin up the earth quick till sundown. 
when we three be comfortably settle under the big sisham in front of the bungalow and the first rush of question and answer about private ortheris and learoyd and old time and place have die away mulvaney say reflectively glory be there s no p rade to morrow an no bun head corp ril bhoy to give you his lip. an yit i don t know. ti harrd to be something ye niver be an niver mean to be an all the ould day shut up along wid your paper. eyah. i m growin rusty an ti the will av god that a man mustn t serve his quane for time an all. 
he help himself to a fresh peg and sigh furiously. 
let your beard grow mulvaney say i and then you win t be trouble with those notion. you ll be a real civilian. 
dinah shadd have tell me in the draw room of her desire to coax mulvaney into let his beard grow. twas so civilian like say poor dinah who hat her husband s hanker for his old life. 
dinah shadd you re a dishgrace to an honust clane scrap man. say mulvaney without reply to me. grow a beard on your own chin darlint and lave my razor alone. they re all that stand betune me and dis ri pect ability. av i didn t shave i wud be torminted wid an outrajis thurrst. for there s nothin so dhryin to the throat a a big billy goat beard waggin undher the chin. ye wudn t have me dhrink always dinah shadd. by the same token you re kapin me crool dhry now. let me look at that whiskey. 
the whiskey be lend and return but dinah shadd who have be just a eager a her husband in ask after old friend rent me with. 
i take shame for you sorr come down here though the saint know you re a welkim a the daylight whin you do come an upsettin terence s head wid your nonsense about about fwhat s much good forget. he bein a civilian now an you niver be aught else. can you not let the arrmy rest. ti not good for terence. 
i take refuge by mulvaney for dinah shadd ha a temper of her own. 
let be let be say mulvaney ti only wanst in a way i can talk about the ould day. then to me. ye say dhrumshticks be well an his lady tu. i niver know how i like the grey garron till i be shut av him an asia. dhrumshticks be the nickname of the colonel command mulvaney s old regiment. will you be seein him again. you will. thin tell him mulvaney s eye begin to twinkle tell him wid privit _mister_ terence interrupt dinah shadd. 
now the divil an all his angils an the firmament av hiven fly away wid the mister an the sin av make me swear be on your confession dinah shadd. privit_ i tell ye. wid privit mulvaney s best obedience that but for me the last time expire wud be still pullin hair on their way to the sea. 
he throw himself back in the chair chuckle and be silent. 
mr. mulvaney i say please take up the whiskey and don t let him have it until he ha tell the story. 
dinah shadd dexterously whip the bottle away say at the same time ti nothing to be proud av and thus capture by the enemy mulvaney spake. 
twas on chuseday week. i be behaderin round wid the gang on the bankmint i ve teach the hopper how to kape step an stop screechin whin a head gangman come up to me wid about two inch av shirt tail hang round his neck an a disthressful light in his oi. sahib sez he there s a reg mint an a half av soldier up at the junction knockin red cinder out av ivrything an ivrybody. they thried to hang me in my cloth he sez an there will be murder an ruin an rape in the place before nightfall. they say they re comin down here to wake u up. what will we do wid our womenfolk. 
fetch my throlly. sez i. my heart s sick in my rib for a wink at anything wid the quane s uniform on ut fetch my throlly an six av the jildiest men and run me up in shtyle. 
he tuk his best coat say dinah shadd reproachfully. 
twas to do honor to the widdy. i cud ha do no le dinah shadd. you and your digresshins interfere wid the coorse av the narrative. have you iv considhered fwhat i wud look like wid me head shave a well a my chin. you bear that in your mind dinah darlin. 
i be throllied up six mile all to get a shquint at that draf. i know twas a spring draf goin home for there s no rig mint hereabouts more s the pity. 
praise the virgin. murmur dinah shadd. but mulvaney do not hear. 
whin i be about three quarter av a mile off the rest camp powtherin along fit to burrst i hear the noise av the men an on my sowl sorr i cud catch the voice av peg barney bellowin like a bison wid the belly ache. you remimber peg barney that be in d comp ny a red hairy scraun wid a scar on his jaw. peg barney that clear out the blue light jubilee meet wid the cook room mop last year. 
thin i know ut be a draf of the ould rig mint an i be conshumed wid sorrow for the bhoy that be in charge. we be harrd scrapin s at any time. do i iv tell you how horker kelley go into clink nakid a phoebus apollonius wid the shirt av the corp ril an file undher his arrum. an he be a moild man. but i m digreshin. ti a shame both to the rig mint and the arrmy sendin down little orf cer bhoys wid a draf av strong men mad wid liquor an the chanst av gettin shut av india an niver a punishment that s fit to be give right down an away from cantonmints to the dock. ti this nonsince. whin i be servin my time i m undher the article av war an can be whip on the peg for thim. but whin i ve serve my time i m a reserve man an the article av war haven t any hould on me. an orf cer can t do anythin to a time expire savin confinin him to barricks. ti a wise rig lation bekaze a time expire doe not have any barricks. bein on the move all the time. ti a solomon av a rig lation be that. i wud like to be inthroduced to the man that make ut. ti easy to get colt from a kibbereen horse fair into galway than to take a bad draf over ten mile av country. consiquintly that rig lation for fear that the men wud be hurt by the little orf cer bhoy. no matther. the near my throlly come to the rest camp the woilder be the shine an the loud be the voice av peg barney. ti good i be here think i to myself for peg alone be employment for two or three. he bein i well know a cop a a dhrover. 
faith that rest camp be a sight. the tent rope be all skew nose an the peg look a dhrunk a the men fifty av thim the scourin s an rinsin s an divil s lavin s av the ould rig mint. i tell you sorr they be dhrunker than any men you ve ever see in your mortial life. how doe a draf get dhrunk. how doe a frog get fat. they suk ut in through their shkins. 
there be peg barney sittin on the groun in his shirt wan shoe off an wan shoe on whackin a tent peg over the head wid his boot an singin fit to wake the dead. twas no clane song that he sing though. twas the divil s mass. 
what s that. i ask. 
whin a bad egg be shut av the army he sing the divil s mass for a good riddance. an that mane swearin at ivrything from the commandher in chief down to the room corp ril such a you niver in your day hear. some men can swear so a to make green turf crack. have you iv hear the curse in an orange lodge. the divil s mass be ten time bad an peg barney be singin ut whackin the tent peg on the head wid his boot for each man that he curse. a powerful big voice have peg barney an a hard swearer he be whin sober. i stand forninst him an twas not me oi alone that cud tell peg be dhrunk a a coot. 
good mornin peg i sez whin he dhrew breath afther cursin the adj tint gen ral. i ve put on my best coat to see you peg barney sez i. 
thin take ut off again sez peg barney latherin away wid the boot. take ut off an dance ye lousy civilian. 
wid that he begin cursin ould dhrumshticks be so full he clean disremimbers the brigade major an the judge advokit gen ral. 
do you not know me peg. sez i though me blood be hot in me wid be call a civilian. 
an him a decent marry man. wail dinah shadd. 
i do not sez peg but dhrunk or sober i ll tear the hide off your back wid a shovel whin i ve stop singin. 
say you so peg barney. sez i. ti clear a mud you ve forget me. i ll assist your autobiography. wid that i stretch peg barney boot an all an wint into the camp. an awful sight ut be. 
where s the orf cer in charge av the detachment. sez i to scrub greene the manest little worm that ever walk. 
there s no orf cer ye ould cook sez scrub. we re a bloomin republic. 
be you that. sez i. thin i m o connell the dictator an by this you will larn to kape a civil tongue in your rag box. 
wid that i stretch scrub greene an wint to the orf cer s tent. twas a new little bhoy not wan i d iv see before. he be sittin in his tent purtendin not to ave ear av the racket. 
i salute but for the life av me. mint to shake hand whin i go in. twas the sword hangin on the tent pole change my will. 
can t i help sorr. sez i. ti a strong man s job they ve give you an you ll be wantin help by sundown. he be a bhoy wid bowils that child an a rale gintleman. 
sit down sez he. 
not before my orf cer sez i. an i tould him fwhat my service be. 
i ve hear av you sez he. you tuk the town av lungtungpen nakid. 
faith think i that s honor an glory for twas lift nint brazenose do that job. i m wid ye sorr sez i if i m av use. they shud niver ha send you down wid the draf. savin your presince sorr i sez ti only lift nint hackerston in the ould rig mint can manage a home draf. 
i ve niver have charge of men like this before sez he playin wid the pen on the table. an i see by the rig lations. 
shut your oi to the rig lations sorr i sez till the throoper s into blue wather. by the rig lations you ve get to tuck thim up for the night or they ll be runnin foul av my cooly an makin a shiverarium half through the country. can you trust your noncom sorr. 
yes sez he. 
good sez i. there ll be throuble before the night. be you marchin sorr. 
to the next station sez he. 
good still sez i. there ll be big throuble. 
can t be too hard on a home draf sez he. the great thing be to get thim in ship. 
faith you ve larnt the half av your lesson sorr sez i but av you shtick to the rig lations you ll niver get thim in ship at all at all. or there win t be a rag av kit betune thim whin you do. 
twas a dear little orf cer bhoy an by way av kapin his heart up i tould him fwhat i saw wanst in a draf in egypt. 
what be that mulvaney. say i. 
sivin an fifty men sittin on the bank av a canal laughin at a poor little squidgereen av an orf cer that they d make wade into the slush an pitch the thing out av the boat for their lord high mightiness. that make me orf cer bhoy woild wid indignation. 
soft an aisy sorr sez i. you ve niver have your draf in hand since you leave cantonmints. wait till the night an your work will be ready to you. wid your permission sorr i will investigate the camp an talk to my ould friend. ti no manner av use thryin to shtop the divilmint now. 
wid that i wint out into the camp an inthrojuced mysilf to ivry man sober enough to remimber me. i be some wan in the ould day an the bhoys be glad to see me all excipt peg barney wid a eye like a tomata five day in the bazar an a nose to match. they come round me an shuk me an i tould thim i be in privit employ wid an income av me own an a drrrawin room fit to bate the quane s. an wid me lie an me shtories an nonsinse gin rally i keep em quiet in wan way an another knockin roun the camp. twas bad even thin whin i be the angil av peace. 
i talk to me ould non coms they be sober an betune me an thim we wear the draf over into their tent at the proper time. the little orf cer bhoy he come round decint an civil speak a might be. 
rough quarter men sez he but you can t look to be a comfortable a in barricks. we must make the best av thing. i ve shut my eye to a dale av dog s trick to day an now there must be no more av ut. 
no more we will. come an have a dhrink me son sez peg barney staggerin where he stud. me little orf cer bhoy kep his timper. 
you re a sulky swine you be sez peg barney an at that the men in the tent begin to laugh. 
i tould you me orf cer bhoy have bowils. he cut peg barney a near a might be on the oi that i d squshed whin we first meet. peg wint spinnin acrost the tent. 
peg him out sorr sez i in a whishper. 
peg him out. sez me orf cer bhoy up loud just a if twas battalion p rade an he pickin his wurrds from the sargint. 
the non coms tuk peg barney a howlin handful he be an in three minuts he be peg out chin down tight dhrawn on his stummick a tent peg to each arm an leg swearin fit to turn a naygur white. 
i tuk a peg an jam ut into his ugly jaw. bite on that peg barney i sez. the night be settin frosty an you ll be wantin divarsion before the mornin. but for the rig lations you d be bitin on a bullet now at the thriangles peg barney sez i. 
all the draf be out av their tent watchin barney bein peg. 
ti agin the rig lations. he strook him. screech out scrub greene who be always a lawyer. an some of the men tuk up the shoutin. 
peg out that man. sez my orf cer bhoy niver losin his timper. an the non coms wint in and peg out scrub greene by the side av peg barney. 
i cud see that the draf be comin roun. the men stud not knowin fwhat to do. 
get to your tent. sez me orf cer bhoy. sargint put a sintry over these two men. 
the men wint back into the tent like jackal an the rest av the night there be no noise at all excipt the stip av the sintry over the two an scrub greene blubberin like a child. twas a chilly night an faith ut sober peg barney. 
just before revelly my orf cer bhoy come out an sez. loose those men an send thim to their tent. scrub greene wint away widout a word but peg barney stiff wid the cowld stud like a sheep thryin to make his orf cer understhand he be sorry for playin the goat. 
there be no tucker in the draf whin ut fell in for the march an divil a wurrd about illegality cud i hear. 
i wint to the ould color sargint and i sez. let me die in glory sez i. i ve see a man this day. 
a man he be sez ould hother. the draf s a sick a a herrin. they ll all go down to the sea like lamb. that bhoy ha the bowils av a cantonmint av gin rals. 
amin sez i an good luck go wid him wheriver he be by land or by sea. let me know how the draf get clear. 
an do you know how they do. that bhoy so i be tould by letter from bombay bullydamned em down to the dock till they cudn t call their sowls their own. from the time they leave me oi till they be tween deck not wan av thim be more than dacintly dhrunk. an by the holy article av war whin they wint aboard they cheer him till they cudn t spake an that_ mark you ha not come about wid a draf in the mim ry av livin man. you look to that little orf cer bhoy. he ha bowils. ti not ivry child that wud chuck the rig lations to flanders an stretch peg barney on a wink from a brokin an dilapidate ould carkiss like mesilf. i d be proud to serve. 
terrence you re a civilian say dinah shadd warningly. 
so i be so i be. be ut likely i wud forget ut. but he be a gran bhoy all the same an i m only a mudtipper wid a hod on my shoulthers. the whiskey s in the heel av your hand sorr. wid your good lave we ll dhrink to the ould rig mint three finger standin up. 
and we drink. 
by word of mouth. 
not though you die to night o sweet and wail a spectre at my door shall mortal fear make love immortal fail i shall but love you more who from death s house return give me still one moment s comfort in my matchless ill. 
shadow house. 
this tale may be explain by those who know how soul be make and where the bound of the possible be put down. i have live long enough in this india to know that it be best to know nothing and can only write the story a it happen. 
dumoise be our civil surgeon at meridki and we call him dormouse because he be a round little sleepy little man. he be a good doctor and never quarrel with any one not even with our deputy commissioner who have the manner of a bargee and the tact of a horse. he marry a girl a round and a sleepy look a himself. she be a miss hillardyce daughter of squash hillardyce of the berars who marry his chief s daughter by mistake. but that be another story. 
* * * * *. 
a honeymoon in india be seldom more than a week long. but there be nothing to hind a couple from extend it over two or three year. india be a delightful country for marry folk who be wrap up in one another. they can live absolutely alone and without interruption just a the dormouse do. those two little people retire from the world after their marriage and be very happy. they be force of course to give occasional dinner but they make no friend thereby and the station go it own way and forget them. only say occasionally that dormouse be the best of good fellow though dull. a civil surgeon who never quarrel be a rarity appreciate a such. 
few people can afford to play robinson crusoe anywhere least of all in india where we be few in the land and very much dependent on each other s kind office. dumoise be wrong in shut himself from the world for a year and he discover his mistake when an epidemic of typhoid break out in the station in the heart of the cold weather and his wife go down. he be a shy little man and five day be waste before he realize that mr. dumoise be burn with something bad than simple fever and three day more pass before he venture to call on mr. shute the engineer s wife and timidly speak about his trouble. 
nearly every household in india know that doctor be very helpless in typhoid. the battle must be fight out between death and the nurse minute by minute and degree by degree. mr. shute almost box dumoise s ear for what she call his criminal delay and go off at once to look after the poor girl. we have seven case of typhoid in the station that winter and a the average of death be about one in every five case we felt certain that we should have to lose somebody. but all do their best. the woman sit up nurse the woman and the men turn to and tend the bachelor who be down and we wrestle with those typhoid case for fifty six day and bring them through the valley of the shadow in triumph. but just when we think all be over and be go to give a dance to celebrate the victory little mr. dumoise get a relapse and die in a week and the station go to the funeral. dumoise break down utterly at the brink of the grave and have to be take away. 
after the death dumoise creep into his own house and refuse to be comfort. he do his duty perfectly but we all felt that he should go on leave and the other men of his own service tell him so. dumoise be very thankful for the suggestion he be thankful for anything in those day and go to chini on a walk tour. chini be some twenty march from simla in the heart of the hill and the scenery be good if you be in trouble. you pas through big still deodar forest and under big still cliff and over big still grass down swell like a woman s breast. and the wind across the grass and the rain among the deodar say hush hush hush. so little dumoise be pack off to chini to wear down his grief with a full plate camera and a rifle. he take also a useless bearer because the man have be his wife s favorite servant. he be idle and a thief but dumoise trust everything to him. 
on his way back from chini dumoise turn aside to bagi through the forest reserve which be on the spur of mount huttoo. some men who have travel more than a little say that the march from kotegarh to bagi be one of the fine in creation. it run through dark wet forest and end suddenly in bleak nip hillside and black rock. bagi dk bungalow be open to all the wind and be bitterly cold. few people go to bagi. perhaps that be the reason why dumoise go there. he halt at seven in the even and his bearer go down the hillside to the village to engage cooly for the next day s march. the sun have set and the night wind be begin to croon among the rock. dumoise lean on the rail of the veranda wait for his bearer to return. the man come back almost immediately after he have disappear and at such a rate that dumoise fancy he must have cross a bear. he be run a hard a he could up the face of the hill. 
but there be no bear to account for his terror. he race to the veranda and fell down the blood spurt from his nose and his face iron grey. then he gurgle i have see the memsahib. i have see the memsahib. 
where. say dumoise. 
down there walk on the road to the village. she be in a blue dress and she lift the veil of her bonnet and say ram das give my salaam to the sahib_ and tell him that i shall meet him next month at nuddea. then i run away because i be afraid. 
what dumoise say or do i do not know. ram das declare that he say nothing but walk up and down the veranda all the cold night wait for the memsahib to come up the hill and stretch out his arm into the dark like a madman. but no memsahib come and next day he go on to simla cross question the bearer every hour. 
ram das could only say that he have meet mr. dumoise and that she have lift up her veil and give him the message which he have faithfully repeat to dumoise. to this statement ram das adhere. he do not know where nuddea be have no friend at nuddea and would most certainly never go to nuddea. even though his pay be double. 
nuddea be in bengal and ha nothing whatever to do with a doctor serve in the punjab. it must be more than twelve hundred mile south of meridki. 
dumoise go through simla without halt and return to meridki there to take over charge from the man who have be officiate for him during his tour. there be some dispensary account to be explain and some recent order of the surgeon general to be note and altogether the take over be a full day s work in the even dumoise tell his locum tenens_ who be an old friend of his bachelor day what have happen at bagi. and the man say that ram das might a well have choose tuticorin while he be about it. 
at that moment a telegraph peon come in with a telegram from simla order dumoise not to take over charge at meridki but to go at once to nuddea on special duty. there be a nasty outbreak of cholera at nuddea and the bengal government be short hand a usual have borrow a surgeon from the punjab. 
dumoise throw the telegram across the table and say well. 
the other doctor say nothing. it be all that he could say. 
then he remember that dumoise have pass through simla on his way from bagi. and thus might possibly have hear first news of the impend transfer. 
he try to put the question and the imply suspicion into word but dumoise stop him with if i have desire that_ i should never have come back from chini. i be shoot there. i wish to live for i have thing to do. but i shall not be sorry. 
the other man bow his head and help in the twilight to pack up dumoise s just open trunk. ram das enter with the lamp. 
where be the sahib go. he ask. 
to nuddea say dumoise softly. 
ram das claw dumoise s knee and boot and beg him not to go. ram das weep and howl till he be turn out of the room. then he wrap up all his belonging and come back to ask for a character. he be not go to nuddea to see his sahib die and perhaps to die himself. 
so dumoise give the man his wage and go down to nuddea alone. the other doctor bid him good bye a one under sentence of death. 
eleven day late he have join his memsahib. and the bengal government have to borrow a fresh doctor to cope with that epidemic at nuddea the first importation lay dead in chooadanga dk bungalow. 
the drum of the fore and aft. 
and a little child shall lead them. 
in the army list they still stand a the fore and fit princess hohenzollern sigmaringen auspach s merther tydfilshire own royal loyal light infantry regimental district a but the army through all it barrack and canteen know them now a the fore and aft. they may in time do something that shall make their new title honorable but at present they be bitterly ashamed and the man who call them fore and aft doe so at the risk of the head which be on his shoulder. 
two word breathe into the stable of a certain cavalry regiment will bring the men out into the street with belt and mop and bad language. but a whisper of fore and aft will bring out this regiment with rifle. 
their one excuse be that they come again and do their best to finish the job in style. but for a time all their world know that they be openly beat whip dumb cow shake and afraid. the men know it. their officer know it. the horse guard know it and when the next war come the enemy will know it also. there be two or three regiment of the line that have a black mark against their name which they will then wipe out and it will be excessively inconvenient for the troop upon whom they do their wipe. 
the courage of the british soldier be officially suppose to be above proof and a a general rule it be so. the exception be decently shovel out of sight only to be refer to in the freshet of unguarded talk that occasionally swamp a mess table at midnight. then one hear strange and horrible story of men not follow their officer of order be give by those who have no right to give them and of disgrace that but for the stand luck of the british army might have end in brilliant disaster. these be unpleasant story to listen to and the mess tell them under their breath sit by the big wood fire and the young officer bow his head and think to himself please god his men shall never behave unhandily. 
the british soldier be not altogether to be blame for occasional lapse. but this verdict he should not know. a moderately intelligent general will waste six month in master the craft of the particular war that he may be wag. a colonel may utterly misunderstand the capacity of his regiment for three month after it ha take the field. and even a company commander may err and be deceive a to the temper and temperament of his own handful. wherefore the soldier and the soldier of to day more particularly should not be blame for fall back. he should be shoot or hang afterward pour encourager le autres. but he should not be vilify in newspaper for that be want of tact and waste of space. 
he ha let u say be in the service of the empress for perhaps four year. he will leave in another two year. he ha no inherit moral and four year be not sufficient to drive toughness into his fibre or to teach him how holy a thing be his regiment. he want to drink he want to enjoy himself in india he want to save money and he doe not in the least like get hurt. he ha receive just sufficient education to make him understand half the purport of the order he receive and to speculate on the nature of clean incise and shatter wound. thus if he be tell to deploy under fire preparatory to an attack he know that he run a very great risk of be kill while he be deploy and suspect that he be be throw away to gain ten minute time. he may either deploy with desperate swiftness or he may shuffle or bunch or break accord to the discipline under which he ha lie for four year. 
arm with imperfect knowledge curse with the rudiment of an imagination hamper by the intense selfishness of the low class and unsupported by any regimental association this young man be suddenly introduce to an enemy who in eastern land be always ugly generally tall and hairy and frequently noisy. if he look to the right and the leave and see old soldier men of twelve year service who he know know what they be about take a charge rush or demonstration without embarrassment he be console and apply his shoulder to the butt of his rifle with a stout heart. his peace be the great if he hear a senior who ha teach him his soldier and break his head on occasion whisper. they ll shout and carry on like this for five minute. then they ll rush in and then we ve get em by the short hair. 
but on the other hand if he see only men of his own term of service turn white and play with their trigger and say. what the hell s up now. while the company commander be sweat into their sword hilt and shout. front rank fix bayonet. steady there steady. sight for three hundred no for five. lie down all. steady. front rank kneel. and so forth he become unhappy. and grow acutely miserable when he hear a comrade turn over with the rattle of fire iron fall into the fender and the grunt of a pole ax ox. if he can be move about a little and allow to watch the effect of his own fire on the enemy he feel merry and may be then work up to the blind passion of fight which be contrary to general belief control by a chilly devil and shake men like ague. if he be not move about and begin to feel cold at the pit of the stomach and in that crisis be badly maul and hear order that be never give he will break and he will break badly. and of all thing under the sight of the sun there be nothing more terrible than a break british regiment. when the bad come to the bad and the panic be really epidemic the men must be e en let go and the company commander have good escape to the enemy and stay there for safety s sake. if they can be make to come again they be not pleasant men to meet because they will not break twice. 
about thirty year from this date when we have succeed in half educate everything that wear trouser our army will be a beautifully unreliable machine. it will know too much and it will do too little. late still when all men be at the mental level of the officer of to day it will sweep the earth. speak roughly you must employ either blackguard or gentleman or best of all blackguard command by gentleman to do butch s work with efficiency and despatch. the ideal soldier should of course think for himself the pocketbook say so. unfortunately to attain this virtue he ha to pas through the phase of think of himself and that be misdirect genius. a blackguard may be slow to think for himself but he be genuinely anxious to kill and a little punishment teach him how to guard his own skin and perforate another s. a powerfully prayerful highland regiment officer by rank presbyterian be perhaps one degree more terrible in action than a hard bite thousand of irresponsible irish ruffian lead by most improper young unbeliever. but these thing prove the rule which be that the midway men be not to be trust alone. they have idea about the value of life and an upbringing that ha not teach them to go on and take the chance. they be carefully unprovided with a back of comrade who have be shoot over and until that back be re introduce a a great many regimental commander intend it shall be they be more liable to disgrace themselves than the size of the empire or the dignity of the army allow. their officer be a good a good can be because their train begin early and god ha arrange that a clean run youth of the british middle class shall in the matter of backbone brain and bowel surpass all other youth. for this reason a child of eighteen will stand up do nothing with a tin sword in his hand and joy in his heart until he be drop. if he dy he dy like a gentleman. if he life he write home that he ha be pot snip chip or cut over and sit down to besiege government for a wind gratuity until the next little war break out when he perjure himself before a medical board blarney his colonel burn incense round his adjutant and be allow to go to the front once more. 
which homily bring me directly to a brace of the most finish little fiend that ever bang drum or tootle fife in the band of a british regiment. they end their sinful career by open and flagrant mutiny and be shoot for it. their name be jakin and lew piggy lew and they be bold bad drummer boy both of them frequently birch by the drum major of the fore and aft. 
jakin be a stunt child of fourteen and lew be about the same age. when not look after they smoke and drink. they swear habitually after the manner of the barrack room which be cold swear and come from between clinch teeth. and they fight religiously once a week. jakin have spring from some london gutter and may or may not have pass through dr. barnado s hand ere he arrive at the dignity of drummer boy. lew could remember nothing except the regiment and the delight of listen to the band from his early year. he hide somewhere in his grimy little soul a genuine love for music and be most mistakenly furnish with the head of a cherub. insomuch that beautiful lady who watch the regiment in church be wont to speak of him a a darling. they never hear his vitriolic comment on their manner and moral a he walk back to barrack with the band and mature fresh cause of offence against jakin. 
the other drummer boy hat both lad on account of their illogical conduct. jakin might be pound lew or lew might be rub jakin s head in the dirt but any attempt at aggression on the part of an outsider be meet by the combine force of lew and jakin. and the consequence be painful. the boy be the ishmael of the corp but wealthy ishmael for they sell battle in alternate week for the sport of the barrack when they be not pit against other boy. and thus amass money. 
on this particular day there be dissension in the camp. they have just be convict afresh of smoke which be bad for little boy who use plug tobacco and lew s contention be that jakin have stink so orrid bad from keepin the pipe in pocket that he and he alone be responsible for the birch they be both tingle under. 
i tell you i id the pipe back o barricks say jakin pacifically. 
you re a bloomin liar say lew without heat. 
you re a bloomin little barstard say jakin strong in the knowledge that his own ancestry be unknown. 
now there be one word in the extend vocabulary of barrack room abuse that cannot pas without comment. you may call a man a thief and risk nothing. you may even call him a coward without find more than a boot whiz past your ear but you must not call a man a bastard unless you be prepare to prove it on his front teeth. 
you might ha kep that till i wasn t so sore say lew sorrowfully dodge round jakin s guard. 
i ll make you sore say jakin genially and get home on lew s alabaster forehead. all would have go well and this story a the book say would never have be write have not his evil fate prompt the bazar sergeant s son a long employless man of five and twenty to put in an appearance after the first round. he be eternally in need of money and know that the boy have silver. 
fight again say he. i ll report you to my father and he ll report you to the color sergeant. 
what s that to you. say jakin with an unpleasant dilation of the nostril. 
oh. nothing to me. you ll get into trouble and you ve be up too often to afford that. 
what the hell do you know about what we ve do. ask lew the seraph. _you aren t in the army you lousy cadge civilian. 
he close in on the man s leave flank. 
jes cause you find two gentleman settlin their difference with their fistes you stick in your ugly nose where you aren t want. run ome to your arf caste slut of a ma or we ll give you what for say jakin. 
the man attempt reprisal by knock the boy head together. the scheme would have succeed have not jakin punch him vehemently in the stomach or have lew refrain from kick his shin. they fight together bleed and breathless for half an hour and after heavy punishment triumphantly pull down their opponent a terrier pull down a jackal. 
now gasp jakin i ll give you what for. he proceed to pound the man s feature while lew stamp on the outlying portion of his anatomy. chivalry be not a strong point in the composition of the average drummer boy. he fight a do his better to make his mark. 
ghastly be the ruin that escape and awful be the wrath of the bazar sergeant. awful too be the scene in orderly room when the two reprobate appear to answer the charge of half murder a civilian. the bazar sergeant thirst for a criminal action and his son lie. the boy stand to attention while the black cloud of evidence accumulate. 
you little devil be more trouble than the rest of the regiment put together say the colonel angrily. one might a well admonish thistledown and i can t well put you in cell or under stoppage. you must be flog again. 
beg y pardon sir. can t we say nothin in our own defence sir. shrill jakin. 
hey. what. be you go to argue with me. say the colonel. 
no sir say lew. but if a man come to you sir and say he be go to report you sir for aving a bite of a turn up with a friend sir an want to get money out o you_ sir. 
the orderly room explode in a roar of laughter. well. say the colonel. 
that be what that measly jarnwar there do sir and e d a do it sir if we adn t prevent im. we didn t it im much sir. e adn t no manner o right to interfere with u sir. i don t mind bein flog by the drum major sir nor yet report by any corp ral but i m but i don t think it s fair sir for a civilian to come an talk over a man in the army. 
a second shout of laughter shake the orderly room but the colonel be grave. 
what sort of character have these boy. he ask of the regimental sergeant major. 
accordin to the bandmaster sir return that revere official the only soul in the regiment whom the boy fear they do everything but lie sir. 
be it like we d go for that man for fun sir. say lew point to the plaintiff. 
oh admonish admonish. say the colonel testily and when the boy have go he read the bazar sergeant s son a lecture on the sin of unprofitable meddle and give order that the bandmaster should keep the drum in good discipline. 
if either of you come to practice again with so much a a scratch on your two ugly little face thunder the bandmaster i ll tell the drum major to take the skin off your back. understand that you young devil. 
then he repent of his speech for just the length of time that lew look like a seraph in red worst embellishment take the place of one of the trumpet in hospital and render the echo of a battle piece. lew certainly be a musician and have often in his more exalt moment express a yearn to master every instrument of the band. 
there s nothing to prevent your become a bandmaster lew say the bandmaster who have compose waltz of his own and work day and night in the interest of the band. 
what do he say. demand jakin after practice. 
say i might be a bloomin bandmaster an be ask in to ave a glass o sherry wine on mess night. 
ho. say you might be a bloomin non combatant do e. that s just about wot e would say. when i ve put in my boy s service it s a bloomin shame that doesn t count for pension i ll take on a privit. then i ll be a lance in a year knowin what i know about the in an out o thing. in three year i ll be a bloomin sergeant. i win t marry then not i. i ll old on and learn the orf cer way an apply for exchange into a reg ment that doesn t know all about me. then i ll be a bloomin orf cer. then i ll ask you to ave a glass o sherry wine mister lew an you ll bloomin well ave to stay in the hanty room while the mess sergeant bring it to your dirty ands. 
s pose i_ m go to be a bandmaster. not i quite. i ll be a orf cer too. there s nothin like take to a thing an stickin to it the schoolmaster say. the reg ment don t go ome for another seven year. i ll be a lance then or near to. 
thus the boy discuss their future and conduct themselves with exemplary piety for a week. that be to say lew start a flirtation with the color sergeant s daughter age thirteen not a he explain to jakin with any intention o matrimony but by way o keepin my and in. and the black haired cris delighan enjoy that flirtation more than previous one and the other drummer boy rag furiously together and jakin preach sermon on the danger of bein tangle along o petticoat. 
but neither love nor virtue would have hold lew long in the path of propriety have not the rumor go abroad that the regiment be to be send on active service to take part in a war which for the sake of brevity we will call the war of the lose tribe. 
the barrack have the rumor almost before the mess room and of all the nine hundred men in barrack not ten have see a shoot fire in anger. the colonel have twenty year ago assist at a frontier expedition. one of the major have see service at the cape. a confirm deserter in e company have help to clear street in ireland. but that be all. the regiment have be put by for many year. the overwhelm mass of it rank and file have from three to four year service. the non commission officer be under thirty year old. and men and sergeant alike have forget to speak of the story write in brief upon the color the new color that have be formally bless by an archbishop in england ere the regiment come away. 
they want to go to the front they be enthusiastically anxious to go but they have no knowledge of what war mean and there be none to tell them. they be an educate regiment the percentage of school certificate in their rank be high and most of the men could do more than read and write. they have be recruit in loyal observance of the territorial idea. but they themselves have no notion of that idea. they be make up of draft from an over populate manufacture district. the system have put flesh and muscle upon their small bone but it could not put heart into the son of those who for generation have do overmuch work for overscanty pay have sweat in dry room stoop over loom cough among white lead and shiver on lime barge. the men have find food and rest in the army and now they be go to fight nigger people who run away if you shake a stick at them. 
wherefore they cheer lustily when the rumor run and the shrewd clerkly non commission officer speculate on the chance of batta and of save their pay. at headquarter men say. the fore and fit have never be under fire within the last generation. let u therefore break them in easily by set them to guard line of communication. and this would have be do but for the fact that british regiment be want badly want at the front and there be doubtful native regiment that could fill the minor duty brigade em with two strong regiment say headquarter. they may be knock about a bite but they ll learn their business before they come through. nothing like a night alarm and a little cut up of straggler to make a regiment smart in the field. wait till they ve have half a dozen sentry throat cut. 
the colonel write with delight that the temper of his men be excellent that the regiment be all that could be wish and a sound a a bell. the major smile with a sober joy and the subaltern waltz in pair down the mess room after dinner and nearly shoot themselves at revolver practice. but there be consternation in the heart of jakin and lew. what be to be do with the drum. would the band go to the front. how many of the drum would accompany the regiment. 
they take council together sit in a tree and smoke. 
it s more than a bloomin toss up they ll leave u be ind at the depot with the woman. you ll like that say jakin sarcastically. 
cause o cris y mean. wot s a woman or a ole bloomin dept o woman longside o the chanst of field service. you know i m a keen on goin a you say lew. 
wish i be a bloomin bugler say jakin sadly. they ll take tom kidd along that i can plaster a wall with an like a not they win t take u. 
then let s go an make tom kidd so bloomin sick e can t bugle no more. you old be ands an i ll kick him say lew wriggle on the branch. 
that ain t no good neither. we ain t the sort o character to presoom on our rep tations they re bad. if they have the band at the depot we don t go and no error there. if they take the band we may get cast for medical unfitness. be you medical fit piggy. say jakin dig lew in the rib with force. 
yus say lew with an oath. the doctor say your eart s weak through smokin on an empty stummick. throw a chest an i ll try yer. 
jakin throw out his chest which lew smite with all his might jakin turn very pale gasp crow screw up his eye and say that s all right. 
you ll do say lew. i ve eard o men dyin when you it em fair on the breast bone. 
don t bring u no near goin though say jakin. do you know where we re order. 
gawd know an e win t split on a pal. somewhere up to the front to kill paythans hairy big beggar that turn you inside out if they get old o you. they say their woman be good look too. 
any loot. ask the abandon jakin. 
not a bloomin anna they say unless you dig up the grind an see what the nigger ave id. they re a poor lot. jakin stand upright on the branch and gaze across the plain. 
lew say he there s the colonel come colonel s a good old beggar. let s go an talk to im. 
lew nearly fell out of the tree at the audacity of the suggestion. like jakin he fear not god neither regard he man but there be limit even to the audacity of drummer boy and to speak to a colonel be. 
but jakin have slide down the trunk and double in the direction of the colonel. that officer be walk wrap in think and vision of a c. b. yes even a k. c. b. for have he not at command one of the best regiment of the line the fore and fit. and he be aware of two small boy charge down upon him. once before it have be solemnly report to him that the drum be in a state of mutiny. jakin and lew be the ringleader. this look like an organize conspiracy. 
the boy halt at twenty yard walk to the regulation four pace and salute together each a well set up a a ramrod and little tall. 
the colonel be in a genial mood. the boy appear very forlorn and unprotected on the desolate plain and one of them be handsome. 
well. say the colonel recognize them. be you go to pull me down in the open. i m sure i never interfere with you even though he sniff suspiciously you have be smoke. 
it be time to strike while the iron be hot. their heart beat tumultuously. 
beg y pardon sir begin jakin. the reg ment s order on active service sir. 
so i believe say the colonel courteously. 
be the band goin sir. say both together. then without pause we re goin sir ain t we. 
you. say the colonel step back the more fully to take in the two small figure. you. you d die in the first march. 
no we wouldn t sir. we can march with the regiment anywheres p rade an anywhere else say jakin. 
if tom kidd go ell shut up like a clasp knife say lew tom a very close vein in both be leg sir. 
very how much. 
very close vein sir. that s why they swell after long p rade sir if e can go we can go sir. 
again the colonel look at them long and intently. 
yes the band be go he say a gravely a though he have be address a brother officer. have you any parent either of you two. 
no sir rejoicingly from lew and jakin. we re both orphan sir. there s no one to be consider of on our account sir. 
you poor little sprat and you want to go up to the front with the regiment do you. why. 
i ve wear the queen s uniform for two year say jakin. it s very ard sir that a man don t get no recompense for doin be dooty sir. 
an an if i don t go sir interrupt lew the bandmaster e say e ll catch an make a bloo a bless musician o me sir. before i ve see any service sir. 
the colonel make no answer for a long time. then he say quietly. if you re pass by the doctor i dare say you can go. i shouldn t smoke if i be you. 
the boy salute and disappear. the colonel walk home and tell the story to his wife who nearly cry over it. the colonel be well please. if that be the temper of the child what would not the men do. 
jakin and lew enter the boy barrack room with great stateliness and refuse to hold any conversation with their comrade for at least ten minute. then burst with pride jakin drawl. i ve bin intervooin the colonel. good old beggar be the colonel. say i to im colonel say i let me go the front along o the reg ment. to the front you shall go say e an i only wish there be more like you among the dirty little devil that bang the bloomin drum. kidd if you throw your coutrements at me for tellin you the truth to your own advantage your leg ll swell. 
none the le there be a battle royal in the barrack room for the boy be consume with envy and hate and neither jakin nor lew behave in conciliatory wise. 
i m goin out to say adoo to my girl say lew to cap the climax. don t none o you touch my kit because it s want for active service me bein specially invite to go by the colonel. 
he stroll forth and whistle in the clump of tree at the back of the marry quarter till cris come to him and the preliminary kiss be give and take lew begin to explain the situation. 
i m goin to the front with the reg ment he say valiantly. 
piggy you re a little liar say cris but her heart misgive her for lew be not in the habit of lie. 
liar yourself cris say lew. slip an arm round her. i m goin when the reg ment march out you ll see me with em all galliant and gay. give u another kiss cris on the strength of it. 
if you d on y a stay at the dept where you ought to ha bin you could get a many of em a a you dam please whimper cris put up her mouth. 
it s ard cris. i grant you it s ard. but what s a man to do. if i d a stay at the dept you wouldn t think anything of me. 
like a not but i d ave you with me piggy an all the thinkin in the world isn t like kissin. 
an all the kissin in the world isn t like avin a medal to wear on the front o your coat. 
_you win t get no medal. 
oh yus i shall though. me an jakin be the only act drummer that ll be take along. all the rest be full men an we ll get our medal with them. 
they might ha take anybody but you piggy. you ll get kill you re so venturesome. stay with me piggy darlin down at the dept an i ll love you true forever. 
ain t you goin to do that now_ cris. you say you be. 
o course i be but th other s more comfortable. wait till you ve grow a bite piggy. you aren t no tall than me now. 
i ve bin in the army for two year an i m not goin to get out of a chanst o seein service an don t you try to make me do so. i ll come back cris an when i take on a a man i ll marry you marry you when i m a lance. 
promise piggy. 
lew reflect on the future a arrange by jakin a short time previously but cris s mouth be very near to his own. 
i promise s elp me gawd. say he. 
cris slide an arm round his neck. 
i win t old you back no more piggy. go away an get your medal an i ll make you a new button bag a nice a i know how she whisper. 
put some o your air into it cris an i ll keep it in my pocket so long s i m alive. 
then cris weep anew and the interview end. public feel among the drummer boy rise to fever pitch and the life of jakin and lew become unenviable. not only have they be permit to enlist two year before the regulation boy s age fourteen but by virtue it seem of their extreme youth they be allow to go to the front which thing have not happen to act drummer within the knowledge of boy. the band which be to accompany the regiment have be cut down to the regulation twenty men the surplus return to the rank. jakin and lew be attach to the band a supernumerary though they would much have prefer be company bugler. 
don t matter much say jakin after the medical inspection be thankful that we re low to go at all. the doctor e say that if we could stand what we take from the bazar sergeant s son we d stand pretty nigh anything. 
which we will say lew look tenderly at the rag and ill make house wife that cris have give him with a lock of her hair work into a sprawl l upon the cover. 
it be the best i could she sob. i wouldn t let mother nor the sergeant s tailor elp me. keep it always piggy an remember i love you true. 
they march to the railway station nine hundred and sixty strong and every soul in cantonment turn out to see them go. the drummer gnash their teeth at jakin and lew march with the band the marry woman weep upon the platform and the regiment cheer it noble self black in the face. 
a nice level lot say the colonel to the second in command a they watch the first four company entrain. 
fit to do anything say the second in command enthusiastically. but it seem to me they re a think too young and tender for the work in hand. it s bitter cold up at the front now. 
they re sound enough say the colonel. we must take our chance of sick casualty. 
so they go northward ever northward past drove and drove of camel army of camp follower and legion of lade mule the throng thicken day by day till with a shriek the train pull up at a hopelessly congest junction where six line of temporary track accommodate six forty wagon train. where whistle blow babu sweat and commissariat officer swear from dawn till far into the night amid the wind drive chaff of the fodder bale and the low of a thousand steer. 
hurry up you re badly want at the front be the message that greet the fore and aft and the occupant of the red cross carriage tell the same tale. 
tisn t so much the bloomin fight gasp a headbound trooper of hussar to a knot of admire fore and afts. tisn t so much the bloomin fightin though there s enough o that. it s the bloomin food an the bloomin climate. frost all night cept when it hail and biling sun all day and the water stink fit to knock you down. i get my ead chip like a egg. i ve get pneumonia too an my gut be all out o order. tain t no bloomin picnic in those part i can tell you. 
wot be the nigger like. demand a private. 
there s some prisoner in that train yonder. go an look at em. they re the aristocracy o the country. the common folk be a dash sight ugly. if you want to know what they fight with reach under my seat an pull out the long knife that s there. 
they drag out and behold for the first time the grim bone handle triangular afghan knife. it be almost a long a lew. 
that s the thing to jint ye say the trooper feebly. 
it can take off a man s arm at the shoulder a easy a slice butter. i halve the beggar that use that un but there s more of his like up above. they don t understand thrustin but they re devil to slice. 
the men stroll across the track to inspect the afghan prisoner. they be unlike any nigger that the fore and aft have ever meet these huge black haired scowl son of the beni israel. a the men star the afghan spat freely and mutter one to another with lower eye. 
my eye. wot awful swine. say jakin who be in the rear of the procession. say old man how you get puckrowed_ eh. kiswasti you wasn t hang for your ugly face hey. 
the tall of the company turn his leg iron clank at the movement and star at the boy. see. he cry to his fellow in pushto. they send child against u. what a people and what fool. 
_hya. say jakin nod his head cheerily. you go down country. khana get peenikapanee get live like a bloomin raja ke marfik. that s a good bandobust than baynit get it in your innards. good bye ole man. take care o your beautiful figure ed an try to look kushy. 
the men laugh and fell in for their first march when they begin to realize that a soldier s life be not all beer and skittle. they be much impress with the size and bestial ferocity of the nigger whom they have now learn to call paythans and more with the exceed discomfort of their own surround. twenty old soldier in the corp would have teach them how to make themselves moderately snug at night but they have no old soldier and a the troop on the line of march say they live like pig. they learn the heart break cussedness of camp kitchen and camel and the depravity of an e. p. tent and a wither wring mule. they study animalculae in water and develop a few case of dysentery in their study. 
at the end of their third march they be disagreeably surprise by the arrival in their camp of a hammer iron slug which fire from a steady rest at seven hundred yard flick out the brain of a private seat by the fire. this rob them of their peace for a night and be the begin of a long range fire carefully calculate to that end. in the daytime they saw nothing except an occasional puff of smoke from a crag above the line of march. at night there be distant spurt of flame and occasional casualty which set the whole camp blaze into the gloom and occasionally into opposite tent. then they swear vehemently and vow that this be magnificent but not war. 
indeed it be not. the regiment could not halt for reprisal against the franctireurs of the country side. it duty be to go forward and make connection with the scotch and gurkha troop with which it be brigade. the afghan know this and know too after their first tentative shot that they be deal with a raw regiment. thereafter they devote themselves to the task of keep the fore and aft on the strain. not for anything would they have take equal liberty with a season corp with the wicked little gurkha whose delight it be to lie out in the open on a dark night and stalk their stalker with the terrible big men dress in woman s clothe who could be hear pray to their god in the night watch and whose peace of mind no amount of snip could shake or with those vile sikh who march so ostentatiously unprepared and who deal out such grim reward to those who try to profit by that unpreparedness. this white regiment be different quite different. it sleep like a hog and like a hog charge in every direction when it be rouse. it sentry walk with a footfall that could be hear for a quarter of a mile. would fire at anything that move even a drive donkey and when they have once fire could be scientifically rush and lay out a horror and an offence against the morning sun. then there be camp follower who straggle and could be cut up without fear. their shriek would disturb the white boy and the loss of their service would inconvenience them sorely. 
thus at every march the hide enemy become bold and the regiment writhe and twist under attack it could not avenge. the crown triumph be a sudden night rush end in the cut of many tent rope the collapse of the sodden canvas and a glorious knife of the men who struggle and kick below. it be a great deed neatly carry out and it shake the already shake nerve of the fore and aft. all the courage that they have be require to exercise up to this point be the two o clock in the morning courage. and they so far have only succeed in shoot their comrade and lose their sleep. 
sullen discontent cold savage sick with their uniform dull and unclean the fore and aft join their brigade. 
i hear you have a tough time of it come up say the brigadier. but when he saw the hospital sheet his face fell. 
this be bad say he to himself. they re a rotten a sheep. and aloud to the colonel i m afraid we can t spare you just yet. we want all we have else i should have give you ten day to recruit in. 
the colonel wince. on my honor sir he return there be not the least necessity to think of spar u. my men have be rather maul and upset without a fair return. they only want to go in somewhere where they can see what s before them. 
can t say i think much of the fore and fit say the brigadier in confidence to his brigade major. they ve lose all their soldier and by the trim of them might have march through the country from the other side. a more fag out set of men i never put eye on. 
oh they ll improve a the work go on. the parade gloss ha be rub off a little but they ll put on field polish before long say the brigade major. they ve be maul and they don t quite understand it. 
they do not. all the hit be on one side and it be cruelly hard hit with accessory that make them sick. there be also the real sickness that lay hold of a strong man and drag him howl to the grave. bad of all their officer know just a little of the country a the men themselves and look a if they do. the fore and aft be in a thoroughly unsatisfactory condition but they believe that all would be well if they could once get a fair go in at the enemy. pot shot up and down the valley be unsatisfactory and the bayonet never seem to get a chance. perhaps it be a well for a long limbed afghan with a knife have a reach of eight foot and could carry away enough lead to disable three englishman the fore and fit would like some rifle practice at the enemy all seven hundred rifle blaze together. that wish show the mood of the men. 
the gurkha walk into their camp and in break barrack room english strive to fraternize with them. offer them pipe of tobacco and stand them treat at the canteen. but the fore and aft not know much of the nature of the gurkha treat them a they would treat any other nigger and the little men in green trot back to their firm friend the highlander and with many grin confide to them. that dam white regiment no dam use. sulky ugh. dirty ugh. hya any tot for johnny. whereat the highlander smite the gurkha a to the head and tell them not to vilify a british regiment and the gurkha grin cavernously for the highlander be their elder brother and entitle to the privilege of kinship. the common soldier who touch a gurkha be more than likely to have his head slice open. 
three day late the brigadier arrange a battle accord to the rule of war and the peculiarity of the afghan temperament. the enemy be mass in inconvenient strength among the hill and the move of many green standard warn him that the tribe be up in aid of the afghan regular troop. a squadron and a half of bengal lancer represent the available cavalry and two screw gun borrow from a column thirty mile away the artillery at the general s disposal. 
if they stand a i ve a very strong notion that they will i fancy we shall see an infantry fight that will be worth watch say the brigadier. we ll do it in style. each regiment shall be play into action by it band and we ll hold the cavalry in reserve. 
for all the reserve. somebody ask. 
for all the reserve. because we re go to crumple them up say the brigadier who be an extraordinary brigadier and do not believe in the value of a reserve when deal with asiatic. and indeed when you come to think of it have the british army consistently wait for reserve in all it little affair the boundary of our empire would have stop at brighton beach. 
that battle be to be a glorious battle. 
the three regiment debouch from three separate gorge after duly crown the height above be to converge from the centre leave and right upon what we will call the afghan army then station toward the low extremity of a flat bottom valley. thus it will be see that three side of the valley practically belong to the english while the fourth be strictly afghan property. in the event of defeat the afghan have the rocky hill to fly to where the fire from the guerilla tribe in aid would cover their retreat. in the event of victory these same tribe would rush down and lend their weight to the rout of the british. 
the screw gun be to shell the head of each afghan rush that be make in close formation and the cavalry hold in reserve in the right valley be to gently stimulate the break up which would follow on the combine attack. the brigadier sit upon a rock overlook the valley would watch the battle unroll at his foot. the fore and aft would debouch from the central gorge the gurkha from the leave and the highlander from the right for the reason that the leave flank of the enemy seem a though it require the most hammer. it be not every day that an afghan force would take grind in the open and the brigadier be resolve to make the most of it. 
if we only have a few more men he say plaintively we could surround the creature and crumble em up thoroughly. a it be i m afraid we can only cut them up a they run. it s a great pity. 
the fore and aft have enjoy unbroken peace for five day and be begin in spite of dysentery to recover their nerve. but they be not happy for they do not know the work in hand and have they know would not have know how to do it. throughout those five day in which old soldier might have teach them the craft of the game they discuss together their misadventure in the past how such an one be alive at dawn and dead ere the dusk and with what shriek and struggle such another have give up his soul under the afghan knife. death be a new and horrible thing to the son of mechanic who be use to die decently of zymotic disease. and their careful conservation in barrack have do nothing to make them look upon it with le dread. 
very early in the dawn the bugle begin to blow and the fore and aft fill with a misguide enthusiasm turn out without wait for a cup of coffee and a biscuit. and be reward by be keep under arm in the cold while the other regiment leisurely prepare for the fray. all the world know that it be ill take the breeks off a highland. it be much ill to try to make him stir unless he be convince of the necessity for haste. 
the fore and aft await lean upon their rifle and listen to the protest of their empty stomach. the colonel do his best to remedy the default of line a soon a it be bear in upon him that the affair would not begin at once and so well do he succeed that the coffee be just ready when the men move off their band lead. even then there have be a mistake in time and the fore and aft come out into the valley ten minute before the proper hour. their band wheel to the right after reach the open and retire behind a little rocky knoll still play while the regiment go past. 
it be not a pleasant sight that open on the uninstructed view for the low end of the valley appear to be fill by an army in position real and actual regiment attire in red coat and of this there be no doubt fire martini henri bullet which cut up the grind a hundred yard in front of the lead company. over that pock mark grind the regiment have to pas and it open the ball with a general and profound courtesy to the pip picket. duck in perfect time a though it have be braze on a rod. be half capable of think for itself it fire a volley by the simple process of pitch it rifle into it shoulder and pull the trigger. the bullet may have account for some of the watcher on the hillside but they certainly do not affect the mass of enemy in front while the noise of the rifle drown any order that might have be give. 
good god. say the brigadier sit on the rock high above all. that regiment ha spoil the whole show. hurry up the others and let the screw gun get off. 
but the screw gun in work round the height have stumble upon a wasp s nest of a small mud fort which they incontinently shell at eight hundred yard to the huge discomfort of the occupant who be unaccustomed to weapon of such devilish precision. 
the fore and aft continue to go forward but with shorten stride. where be the other regiment and why do these nigger use martini. they take open order instinctively lie down and fire at random rush a few pace forward and lie down again accord to the regulation. once in this formation each man felt himself desperately alone and edge in toward his fellow for comfort s sake. 
then the crack of his neighbor s rifle at his ear lead him to fire a rapidly a he could again for the sake of the comfort of the noise. the reward be not long delay. five volley plunge the file in bank smoke impenetrable to the eye and the bullet begin to take grind twenty or thirty yard in front of the firers a the weight of the bayonet drag down and to the right arm weary with hold the kick of the leap martini. the company commander peer helplessly through the smoke the more nervous mechanically try to fan it away with their helmet. 
high and to the leave. bawl a captain till he be hoarse. no good. cease fire and let it drift away a bite. 
three and four time the bugle shriek the order and when it be obey the fore and aft look that their foe should be lie before them in mow swath of men. a light wind drive the smoke to leeward and show the enemy still in position and apparently unaffected. a quarter of a ton of lead have be bury a furlong in front of them a the rag earth attest. 
that be not demoralize to the afghan who have not european nerve. they be wait for the mad riot to die down and be fire quietly into the heart of the smoke. a private of the fore and aft spin up his company shriek with agony another be kick the earth and gasp and a third rip through the low intestine by a jag bullet be call aloud on his comrade to put him out of his pain. these be the casualty and they be not soothe to hear or see. the smoke clear to a dull haze. 
then the foe begin to shout with a great shout and a mass a black mass detach itself from the main body and roll over the grind at horrid speed. it be compose of perhaps three hundred men who would shout and fire and slash if the rush of their fifty comrade who be determine to die carry home. the fifty be ghazis half madden with drug and wholly mad with religious fanaticism. when they rush the british fire cease and in the lull the order be give to close rank and meet them with the bayonet. 
any one who know the business could have tell the fore and aft that the only way of deal with a ghazi rush be by volley at long range. because a man who mean to die who desire to die who will gain heaven by die must in nine case out of ten kill a man who ha a linger prejudice in favor of life if he can close with the latter. where they should have close and go forward the fore and aft open out and skirmish and where they should have open out and fire they close and wait. 
a man drag from his blanket half awake and unfed be never in a pleasant frame of mind. nor doe his happiness increase when he watch the white of the eye of three hundred six foot fiend upon whose beard the foam be lie upon whose tongue be a roar of wrath and in whose hand be three foot knife. 
the fore and aft hear the gurkha bugle bring that regiment forward at the double while the neigh of the highland pipe come from the leave. they strive to stay where they be though the bayonet waver down the line like the oar of a rag boat. then they felt body to body the amaze physical strength of their foe. a shriek of pain end the rush and the knife fell amid scene not to be tell. the men club together and smite blindly a often a not at their own fellow. their front crumple like paper and the fifty ghazis pass on. their backer now drink with success fight a madly a they. 
then the rear rank be bid to close up and the subaltern dash into the stew alone. for the rear rank have hear the clamor in front the yell and the howl of pain and have see the dark stale blood that make afraid. they be not go to stay. it be the rush of the camp over again. let their officer go to hell if they choose. they would get away from the knife. 
come on. shriek the subaltern and their men curse them draw back each close into his neighbor and wheel round. 
charteris and devlin subaltern of the last company face their death alone in the belief that their men would follow. 
you ve kill me you coward sob devlin and drop cut from the shoulder strap to the centre of the chest and a fresh detachment of his men retreat always retreat trample him under foot a they make for the pas whence they have emerge. 
i kiss her in the kitchen and i kiss her in the hall. child un child un follow me. oh golly say the cook be he gwine to kiss u all. halla halla halla hallelujah. 
the gurkha be pour through the leave gorge and over the height at the double to the invitation of their regimental quickstep. the black rock be crown with dark green spider a the bugle give tongue jubilantly. 
in the morning. in the morning by the bright light. when gabriel blow his trumpet in the morning. 
the gurkha rear company trip and blunder over loose stone. the front file halt for a moment to take stock of the valley and to settle stray boot lace. then a happy little sigh of contentment sough down the rank and it be a though the land smile for behold there below be the enemy and it be to meet them that the gurkha have double so hastily. there be much enemy. there would be amusement. the little men hitch their kukris well to hand and gap expectantly at their officer a terrier grin ere the stone be cast for them to fetch. the gurkha grind slop downward to the valley and they enjoy a fair view of the proceeding. they sit upon the bowlder to watch for their officer be not go to waste their wind in assist to repulse a ghazi rush more than half a mile away. let the white men look to their own front. 
hi. yi. say the subadar major who be sweat profusely dam fool yonder stand close order. this be no time for close order it s the time for volley. ugh. 
horrify amuse and indignant the gurkha behold the retirement let u be gentle of the fore and aft with a run chorus of oath and commentary. 
they run. the white men run. colonel sahib may we also do a little run. murmur runbir thappa the senior jemadar. 
but the colonel would have none of it. let the beggar be cut up a little say he wrathfully. serf em right they ll be prod into face round in a minute. he look through his field glass and catch the glint of an officer s sword. 
beat em with the flat damn conscript. how the ghazis be walk into them. say he. 
the fore and aft head back bore with them their officer. the narrowness of the pas force the mob into solid formation and the rear rank deliver some sort of a waver volley. the ghazis draw off for they do not know what reserve the gorge might hide. moreover it be never wise to chase white men too far. they return a wolf return to cover satisfy with the slaughter that they have do and only stop to slash at the wound on the grind. a quarter of a mile have the fore and aft retreat and now jam in the pas be quiver with pain shake and demoralize with fear while the officer madden beyond control smite the men with the hilt and the flat of their sword. 
get back. get back you coward you woman. right about face column of company form you hound. shout the colonel and the subaltern swear aloud. but the regiment want to go to go anywhere out of the range of those merciless knife. it sway to and fro irresolutely with shout and outcry while from the right the gurkha drop volley after volley of cripple stopper snide bullet at long range into the mob of the ghazis return to their own troop. 
the fore and aft band though protect from direct fire by the rocky knoll under which it have sit down flee at the first rush. jakin and lew would have flee also but their short leg leave them fifty yard in the rear and by the time the band have mix with the regiment they be painfully aware that they would have to close in alone and unsupported. 
get back to that rock gasp jakin. they win t see u there. 
and they return to the scatter instrument of the band. their heart nearly burst their rib. 
here s a nice show for us_ say jakin throw himself full length on the grind. a bloomin fine show for british infantry. oh the devil. they ve go an leave u alone here. wot ll we do. 
lew take possession of a cast off water bottle which naturally be full of canteen rum and drink till he cough again. 
drink say he shortly. they ll come back in a minute or two you see. 
jakin drink but there be no sign of the regiment s return. they could hear a dull clamor from the head of the valley of retreat and saw the ghazis slink back quicken their pace a the gurkha fire at them. 
we re all that s leave of the band an we ll be cut up a sure a death say jakin. 
i ll die game then say lew thickly fumble with his tiny drummer s sword. the drink be work on his brain a it be on jakin s. 
old on. i know something good than fightin say jakin sting by the splendor of a sudden think due chiefly to rum. tip our bloomin coward yonder the word to come back. the paythan beggar be well away. come on lew. we win t get hurt. take the fife an give me the drum. the old step for all your bloomin gut be worth. there s a few of our men come back now. stand up ye drunken little defaulter. by your right quick march. 
he slip the drum sling over his shoulder thrust the fife into lew s hand and the two boy march out of the cover of the rock into the open make a hideous hash of the first bar of the british grenadier. 
a lew have say a few of the fore and aft be come back sullenly and shamefacedly under the stimulus of blow and abuse. their red coat shine at the head of the valley and behind them be waver bayonet. but between this shatter line and the enemy who with afghan suspicion fear that the hasty retreat mean an ambush and have not move therefore lay half a mile of a level grind dot only by the wound. 
the tune settle into full swing and the boy keep shoulder to shoulder jakin bang the drum a one possess. the one fife make a thin and pitiful squeak but the tune carry far even to the gurkha. 
come on you dog. mutter jakin to himself be we to play forhever. lew be star straight in front of him and march more stiffly than ever he have do on parade. 
and in bitter mockery of the distant mob the old tune of the old line shrill and rattle. 
some talk of alexander and some of hercules. of hector and lysander and such great name a these. 
there be a far off clap of hand from the gurkha and a roar from the highlander in the distance but never a shoot be fire by british or afghan. the two little red dot move forward in the open parallel to the enemy s front. 
but of all the world s great hero there s none that can compare with a tow row row row row row to the british grenadier. 
the men of the fore and aft be gather thick at the entrance into the plain. the brigadier on the height far above be speechless with rage. still no movement from the enemy. the day stay to watch the child. 
jakin halt and beat the long roll of the assembly while the fife squeal despairingly. 
right about face. hold up lew you re drink say jakin. they wheel and march back. 
those hero of antiquity ne er saw a cannon ball nor know the force o powder. 
here they come. say jakin. go on lew. 
to scare their foe withal. 
the fore and aft be pour out of the valley. what officer have say to men in that time of shame and humiliation will never be know. for neither officer nor men speak of it now. 
they be come anew. shout a priest among the afghan. do not kill the boy. take them alive and they shall be of our faith. 
but the first volley have be fire and lew drop on his face. jakin stand for a minute spin round and collapse a the fore and aft come forward the malediction of their officer in their ear and in their heart the shame of open shame. 
half the men have see the drummer die and they make no sign. they do not even shout. they double out straight across the plain in open order and they do not fire. 
this say the colonel of gurkha softly be the real attack a it ought to have be deliver. come on my child. 
ulu lu lu lu. squeal the gurkha and come down with a joyful click of kukris those vicious gurkha knife. 
on the right there be no rush. the highlander cannily commend their soul to god. for it matter a much to a dead man whether he ha be shoot in a border scuffle or at waterloo. open out and fire accord to their custom that be to say without heat and without interval while the screw gun have dispose of the impertinent mud fort aforementioned drop shell after shell into the cluster round the flicker green standard on the height. 
charrging be an unfortunate necessity murmur the color sergeant of the right company of the highlander. 
it make the men sweer so but i be thinkin that it will come to a charrge if these black devil stand much long. stewarrt man you re fire into the eye of the sun and he ll not take any harm for government ammuneetion. a foot low and a great deal slow. what be the english do. they re very quiet there in the centre. run again. 
the english be not run. they be hack and hew and stab for though one white man be seldom physically a match for an afghan in a sheepskin or wad coat yet through the pressure of many white men behind and a certain thirst for revenge in his heart he become capable of do much with both end of his rifle. the fore and aft hold their fire till one bullet could drive through five or six men and the front of the afghan force give on the volley. they then select their men and slew them with deep gasp and short hack cough and groan of leather belt against strain body and realize for the first time that an afghan attack be far le formidable than an afghan attack. which fact old soldier might have tell them. 
but they have no old soldier in their rank. 
the gurkha stall at the bazar be the noisy for the men be engage to a nasty noise a of beef be cut on the block with the kukri_ which they prefer to the bayonet. well know how the afghan hate the half moon blade. 
a the afghan waver the green standard on the mountain move down to assist them in a last rally. which be unwise. the lancer chafe in the right gorge have thrice despatch their only subaltern a galloper to report on the progress of affair. on the third occasion he return with a bullet graze on his knee swear strange oath in hindoostani and say that all thing be ready. so that squadron swing round the right of the highlander with a wicked whistle of wind in the pennon of it lance and fell upon the remnant just when accord to all the rule of war it should have wait for the foe to show more sign of waver. 
but it be a dainty charge deftly deliver and it end by the cavalry find itself at the head of the pas by which the afghan intend to retreat. and down the track that the lance have make stream two company of the highlander which be never intend by the brigadier. the new development be successful. it detach the enemy from his base a a sponge be tear from a rock and leave him ring about with fire in that pitiless plain. and a a sponge be chase round the bath tub by the hand of the bather so be the afghan chase till they break into little detachment much more difficult to dispose of than large mass. 
see. quoth the brigadier. everything ha come a i arrange. we ve cut their base and now we ll bucket em to piece. 
a direct hammer be all that the brigadier have dare to hope for consider the size of the force at his disposal. but men who stand or fall by the error of their opponent may be forgive for turn chance into design. the bucket go forward merrily. the afghan force be upon the run the run of weary wolf who snarl and bite over their shoulder. the red lance dip by two and three and with a shriek up rise the lance butt like a spar on a stormy sea a the trooper canter forward clear his point. the lancer keep between their prey and the steep hill for all who could be try to escape from the valley of death. the highlander give the fugitive two hundred yard law and then bring them down gasp and choke ere they could reach the protection of the bowlder above. the gurkha follow suit. but the fore and aft be kill on their own account for they have pen a mass of men between their bayonet and a wall of rock and the flash of the rifle be light the wad coat. 
we cannot hold them captain sahib. pant a ressaldar of lancer. let u try the carbine. the lance be good but it waste time. 
they try the carbine and still the enemy melt away flee up the hill by hundred when there be only twenty bullet to stop them. on the height the screw gun cease fire they have run out of ammunition and the brigadier groan for the musketry fire could not sufficiently smash the retreat. long before the last volley be fire the litter be out in force look for the wound. the battle be over and but for want of fresh troop the afghan would have be wipe off the earth. a it be they count their dead by hundred and nowhere be the dead thick than in the track of the fore and aft. 
but the regiment do not cheer with the highlander nor do they dance uncouth dance with the gurkha among the dead. they look under their brow at the colonel a they lean upon their rifle and pant. 
get back to camp you. haven t you disgrace yourself enough for one day. go and look to the wound. it s all you re fit for say the colonel. yet for the past hour the fore and aft have be do all that mortal commander could expect. they have lose heavily because they do not know how to set about their business with proper skill but they have bear themselves gallantly and this be their reward. 
a young and sprightly color sergeant who have begin to imagine himself a hero offer his water bottle to a highland whose tongue be black with thirst. i drink with no coward answer the youngster huskily and turn to a gurkha say hya johnny. drink water get it. the gurkha grin and pass his bottle. the fore and aft say no word. 
they go back to camp when the field of strife have be a little mop up and make presentable and the brigadier who saw himself a knight in three month be the only soul who be complimentary to them. the colonel be heart break and the officer be savage and sullen. 
well say the brigadier they be young troop of course and it be not unnatural that they should retire in disorder for a bite. 
oh my only aunt maria. murmur a junior staff officer. retire in disorder. it be a bally run. 
but they come again a we all know coo the brigadier the colonel s ashy white face before him and they behave a well a could possibly be expect. behave beautifully indeed. i be watch them. it s not a matter to take to heart colonel. a some german general say of his men they want to be shoot over a little that be all. to himself he say. now they re blood i can give em responsible work. it s a well that they get what they do. teach em more than half a dozen rifle flirtation that will late run alone and bite. poor old colonel though. 
all that afternoon the heliograph wink and flicker on the hill strive to tell the good news to a mountain forty mile away. and in the even there arrive dusty sweat and sore a misguide correspondent who have go out to assist at a trumpery village burn and who have read off the message from afar curse his luck the while. 
let s have the detail somehow a full a ever you can please. it s the first time i ve ever be leave this campaign say the correspondent to the brigadier. and the brigadier nothing loath tell him how an army of communication have be crumple up destroy and all but annihilate by the craft strategy wisdom and foresight of the brigadier. 
but some say and among these be the gurkha who watch on the hillside that that battle be win by jakin and lew whose little body be bear up just in time to fit two gap at the head of the big ditch grave for the dead under the height of jagai. 
the send of dana da. 
when the devil ride on your chest remember the chamar. native proverb. 
once upon a time some people in india make a new heaven and a new earth out of break tea cup a miss brooch or two and a hair brush. these be hide under brush or stuff into hole in the hillside and an entire civil service of subordinate god use to find or mend them again. and every one say. there be more thing in heaven and earth than be dream of in our philosophy. several other thing happen also but the religion never seem to get much beyond it first manifestation. though it add an air line postal service and orchestral effect in order to keep abreast of the time and choke off competition. 
this religion be too elastic for ordinary use. it stretch itself and embrace piece of everything that the medicine men of all age have manufacture. it approve of and steal from freemasonry. loot the latter day rosicrucian of half their pet word. take any fragment of egyptian philosophy that it find in the encyclopaedia britannica. annex a many of the veda a have be translate into french or english and talk of all the rest. build in the german version of what be leave of the zend avesta. encourage white grey and black magic include spiritualism palmistry fortune tell by card hot chestnut double kerneled nut and tallow droppings. would have adopt voodoo and oboe have it know anything about them and show itself in every way one of the most accommodate arrangement that have ever be invent since the birth of the sea. 
when it be in thorough work order with all the machinery down to the subscription complete dana da come from nowhere with nothing in his hand and write a chapter in it history which ha hitherto be unpublished. he say that his first name be dana and his second be da. now set aside dana of the new york sun_ dana be a bhil name and da fit no native of india unless you except the bengali d a the original spell. da be lap or finnish. and dana da be neither finn chin bhil bengali lap nair gond romaney magh bokhariot kurd armenian levantine jew persian punjabi madrasi parsee nor anything else know to ethnologist. he be simply dana da and decline to give further information. for the sake of brevity and a roughly indicate his origin he be call the native. he might have be the original old man of the mountain who be say to be the only authorize head of the tea cup creed. some people say that he be. but dana da use to smile and deny any connection with the cult. explain that he be an independent experimenter. 
a i have say he come from nowhere with his hand behind his back and study the creed for three week. sit at the foot of those best competent to explain it mystery. then he laugh aloud and go away but the laugh might have be either of devotion or derision. 
when he return he be without money but his pride be unabated. he declare that he know more about the thing in heaven and earth than those who teach him and for this contumacy be abandon altogether. 
his next appearance in public life be at a big cantonment in upper india and he be then tell fortune with the help of three leaden dice a very dirty old cloth and a little tin box of opium pill. he tell good fortune when he be allow half a bottle of whiskey. but the thing which he invent on the opium be quite worth the money. he be in reduce circumstance. among other people s he tell the fortune of an englishman who have once be interest in the simla creed but who late on have marry and forget all his old knowledge in the study of baby and thing. the englishman allow dana da to tell a fortune for charity s sake and give him five rupee a dinner and some old clothe. when he have eat dana da profess gratitude and ask if there be anything he could do for his host in the esoteric line. 
be there any one that you love. say dana da. the englishman love his wife but have no desire to drag her name into the conversation. he therefore shake his head. 
be there any one that you hate. say dana da. the englishman say that there be several men whom he hat deeply. 
very good say dana da upon whom the whiskey and the opium be begin to tell. only give me their name and i will despatch a send to them and kill them. 
now a send be a horrible arrangement first invent they say in iceland. it be a thing send by a wizard and may take any form but most generally wander about the land in the shape of a little purple cloud till it find the sendee and him it kill by change into the form of a horse or a cat or a man without a face. it be not strictly a native patent though chamars of the skin and hide caste can if irritate despatch a send which sit on the breast of their enemy by night and nearly kill him very few native care to irritate chamars for this reason. 
let me despatch a send say dana da. i be nearly dead now with want and drink and opium. but i should like to kill a man before i die. i can send a send anywhere you choose and in any form except in the shape of a man. 
the englishman have no friend that he wish to kill but partly to soothe dana da whose eye be roll and partly to see what would be do he ask whether a modify send could not be arrange for such a send a should make a man s life a burden to him and yet do him no harm. if this be possible he notify his willingness to give dana da ten rupee for the job. 
i be not what i be once say dana da and i must take the money because i be poor. to what englishman shall i send it. 
send a send to lone sahib say the englishman name a man who have be most bitter in rebuke him for his apostasy from the tea cup creed. dana da laugh and nod. 
i could have choose no good man myself say he. i will see that he find the send about his path and about his bed. 
he lay down on the hearth rug turn up the white of his eye shiver all over and begin to snort. this be magic or opium or the send or all three. when he open his eye he vow that the send have start upon the war path and be at that moment fly up to the town where lone sahib life. 
give me my ten rupee say dana da wearily and write a letter to lone sahib tell him and all who believe with him that you and a friend be use a power great than theirs. they will see that you be speak the truth. 
he depart unsteadily with the promise of some more rupee if anything come of the send. 
the englishman send a letter to lone sahib couch in what he remember of the terminology of the creed. he write. i also in the day of what you hold to be my backslide have obtain enlightenment and with enlightenment ha come power. then he grow so deeply mysterious that the recipient of the letter could make neither head nor tail of it and be proportionately impress. for he fancy that his friend have become a fifth round. when a man be a fifth round he can do more than slade and houdin combine. 
lone sahib read the letter in five different fashion and be begin a sixth interpretation when his bearer dash in with the news that there be a cat on the bed. now if there be one thing that lone sahib hat more than another it be a cat. he scold the bearer for not turn it out of the house. the bearer say that he be afraid. all the door of the bedroom have be shut throughout the morning and no real cat could possibly have enter the room. he would prefer not to meddle with the creature. 
lone sahib enter the room gingerly and there on the pillow of his bed sprawl and whimper a wee white kitten. not a jumpsome frisky little beast but a slug like crawler with it eye barely open and it paw lack strength or direction a kitten that ought to have be in a basket with it mamma. lone sahib catch it by the scruff of it neck hand it over to the sweeper to be drown and fin the bearer four anna. 
that even a he be read in his room he fancy that he saw something move about on the hearth rug outside the circle of light from his read lamp. when the thing begin to myowl he realize that it be a kitten a wee white kitten nearly blind and very miserable. he be seriously angry and speak bitterly to his bearer who say that there be no kitten in the room when he bring in the lamp and real kitten of tender age generally have mother cat in attendance. 
if the presence will go out into the veranda and listen say the bearer he will hear no cat. how therefore can the kitten on the bed and the kitten on the hearth rug be real kitten. 
lone sahib go out to listen and the bearer follow him but there be no sound of any one mew for her child. he return to his room have hurl the kitten down the hillside and write out the incident of the day for the benefit of his co religionist. those people be so absolutely free from superstition that they ascribe anything a little out of the common to agency. a it be their business to know all about the agency they be on term of almost indecent familiarity with manifestation of every kind. their letter drop from the ceiling unstamped and spirit use to squat up and down their staircase all night. but they have never come into contact with kitten. lone sahib write out the fact note the hour and the minute a every psychical observer be bind to do and append the englishman s letter because it be the most mysterious document and might have have a bear upon anything in this world or the next. an outsider would have translate all the tangle thus. look out. you laugh at me once and now i be go to make you sit up. 
lone sahib s co religionist find that mean in it. but their translation be refine and full of four syllable word. they hold a sederunt and be fill with tremulous joy for in spite of their familiarity with all the other world and cycle they have a very human awe of thing send from ghost land. they meet in lone sahib s room in shroud and sepulchral gloom and their conclave be break up by clink among the photo frame on the mantelpiece. a wee white kitten nearly blind be loop and writhe itself between the clock and the candlestick. that stop all investigation or doubt. here be the manifestation in the flesh. it be so far a could be see devoid of purpose but it be a manifestation of undoubted authenticity. 
they draft a round robin to the englishman the backslider of old day adjure him in the interest of the creed to explain whether there be any connection between the embodiment of some egyptian god or other. i have forget the name. and his communication. they call the kitten ra or toth or tum or some thing. and when lone sahib confess that the first one have at his most misguide instance be drown by the sweeper they say consolingly that in his next life he would be a bounder and not even a round of the low grade. these word may not be quite correct but they accurately express the sense of the house. 
when the englishman receive the round robin it come by post he be startle and bewilder. he send into the bazar for dana da who read the letter and laugh that be my send say he. i tell you i would work well. now give me another ten rupee. 
but what in the world be this gibberish about egyptian god. ask the englishman. 
cat say dana da with a hiccough for he have discover the englishman s whiskey bottle. cat and cat and cat. never be such a send. a hundred of cat. now give me ten more rupee and write a i dictate. 
dana da s letter be a curiosity. it bore the englishman s signature and hint at cat at a send of cat. the mere word on paper be creepy and uncanny to behold. 
what have you do though. say the englishman. i be a much in the dark a ever. do you mean to say that you can actually send this absurd send you talk about. 
judge for yourself say dana da. what doe that letter mean. in a little time they will all be at my foot and yours and i o glory. will be drug or drink all day long. 
dana da know his people. 
when a man who hate cat wake up in the morning and find a little squirm kitten on his breast or put his hand into his ulster pocket and find a little half dead kitten where his glove should be or open his trunk and find a vile kitten among his dress shirt or go for a long ride with his mackintosh strap on his saddle bow and shake a little squawling kitten from it fold when he open it or go out to dinner and find a little blind kitten under his chair or stay at home and find a writhe kitten under the quilt or wriggle among his boot or hang head downward in his tobacco jar or be mangle by his terrier in the veranda when such a man find one kitten neither more nor le once a day in a place where no kitten rightly could or should be he be naturally upset. when he dare not murder his daily trove because he belief it to be a manifestation an emissary an embodiment and half a dozen other thing all out of the regular course of nature he be more than upset. he be actually distress. some of lone sahib s co religionist think that he be a highly favor individual. but many say that if he have treat the first kitten with proper respect a suit a toth ra tum sennacherib embodiment all this trouble would have be avert. they compare him to the ancient mariner but none the le they be proud of him and proud of the englishman who have send the manifestation. they do not call it a send because icelandic magic be not in their programme. 
after sixteen kitten that be to say after one fortnight for there be three kitten on the first day to impress the fact of the send the whole camp be uplift by a letter it come fly through a window from the old man of the mountain the head of all the creed explain the manifestation in the most beautiful language and soak up all the credit of it for himself. the englishman say the letter be not there at all. he be a backslider without power or asceticism who couldn t even raise a table by force of volition much le project an army of kitten through space. the entire arrangement say the letter be strictly orthodox work and sanction by the high authority within the pale of the creed. there be great joy at this for some of the weak brother see that an outsider who have be work on independent line could create kitten whereas their own ruler have never go beyond crockery and break at best be show a desire to break line on their own trail. in fact there be the promise of a schism. a second round robin be draft to the englishman begin. o scoffer and end with a selection of curse from the rite of mizraim and memphis and the commination of jugana who be a fifth round upon whose name an upstart third round once trade. a papal excommunication be a billet doux compare to the commination of jugana. the englishman have be prove under the hand and seal of the old man of the mountain to have appropriate virtue and pretend to have power which in reality belong only to the supreme head. naturally the round robin do not spare him. 
he hand the letter to dana da to translate into decent english. the effect on dana da be curious. at first he be furiously angry and then he laugh for five minute. 
i have think he say that they would have come to me. in another week i would have show that i send the send and they would have discrowned the old man of the mountain who ha send this send of mine. do you do nothing. the time ha come for me to act. write a i dictate and i will put them to shame. but give me ten more rupee. 
at dana da s dictation the englishman write nothing le than a formal challenge to the old man of the mountain. it wind up. and if this manifestation be from your hand then let it go forward. but if it be from my hand i will that the send shall cease in two day time. on that day there shall be twelve kitten and thenceforward none at all. the people shall judge between u. this be sign by dana da who add pentacle and pentagram and a crux ansaia_ and half a dozen swastikas_ and a triple tau to his name just to show that he be all he lay claim to be. 
the challenge be read out to the gentleman and lady and they remember then that dana da have laugh at them some year ago. it be officially announce that the old man of the mountain would treat the matter with contempt. dana da be an independent investigator without a single round at the back of him. but this do not soothe his people. they want to see a fight. they be very human for all their spirituality. lone sahib who be really be wear out with kitten submit meekly to his fate. he felt that he be be kitten to prove the power of dana da a the poet say. 
when the state day dawn the shower of kitten begin. some be white and some be tabby and all be about the same loathsome age. three be on his hearth rug three in his bath room and the other six turn up at interval among the visitor who come to see the prophecy break down. never be a more satisfactory send. on the next day there be no kitten and the next day and all the other day be kittenless and quiet. the people murmur and look to the old man of the mountain for an explanation. a letter write on a palm leaf drop from the ceiling but every one except lone sahib felt that letter be not what the occasion demand. there should have be cat there should have be cat full grow one. the letter prove conclusively that there have be a hitch in the psychic current which collide with a dual identity have interfere with the percipient activity all along the main line. the kitten be still go on but owe to some failure in the develop fluid they be not materialize. the air be thick with letter for a few day afterward. unseen hand play glck and beethoven on finger bowl and clock shade. but all men felt that psychic life be a mockery without materialize kitten. even lone sahib shout with the majority on this head. dana da s letter be very insult and if he have then offer to lead a new departure there be no know what might not have happen. 
but dana da be die of whiskey and opium in the englishman s godown and have small heart for honor. 
they have be put to shame say he. never be such a send. it ha kill me. 
nonsense say the englishman you be go to die dana da and that sort of stuff must be leave behind. i ll admit that you have make some queer thing come about. tell me honestly now how be it do. 
give me ten more rupee say dana da faintly and if i die before i spend them bury them with me. the silver be count out while dana da be fight with death. his hand close upon the money and he smile a grim smile. 
bend low he whisper. the englishman bend. 
_bunnia mission school expel box wallah. peddler. ceylon pearl merchant all mine english education out cast and make up name dana da england with american think read man and and you give me ten rupee several time i give the sahib s bearer two eight a month for cat little little cat. i write and he put them about very clever man. very few kitten now in the bazar. ask lone sahib s sweeper s wife. 
so say dana da gasp and pass away into a land where if all be true there be no materialization and the make of new creed be discourage. 
but consider the gorgeous simplicity of it all. 
on the city wall. 
then she let them down by a cord through the window. for her house be upon the town wall and she dwell upon the wall. joshua ii. 
lalun be a member of the most ancient profession in the world. lilith be her very great grandmamma and that be before the day of eve a every one know. in the west people say rude thing about lalun s profession and write lecture about it and distribute the lecture to young person in order that morality may be preserve. in the east where the profession be hereditary descend from mother to daughter nobody write lecture or take any notice. and that be a distinct proof of the inability of the east to manage it own affair. 
lalun s real husband for even lady of lalun s profession in the east must have husband be a big jujube tree. her mamma who have marry a fig tree spend ten thousand rupee on lalun s wed which be bless by forty seven clergyman of mamma s church and distribute five thousand rupee in charity to the poor. and that be the custom of the land. the advantage of have a jujube tree for a husband be obvious. you cannot hurt his feeling and he look impose. 
lalun s husband stand on the plain outside the city wall and lalun s house be upon the east wall face the river. if you fell from the broad window seat you drop thirty foot sheer into the city ditch. but if you stay where you should and look forth you saw all the cattle of the city be drive down to water the student of the government college play cricket the high grass and tree that fringe the river bank the great sand bar that rib the river the red tomb of dead emperor beyond the river and very far away through the blue heat haze a glint of the snow of the himalaya. 
wali dad use to lie in the window seat for hour at a time watch this view. he be a young muhammadan who be suffer acutely from education of the english variety and know it. his father have send him to a mission school to get wisdom and wali dad have absorb more than ever his father or the missionary intend he should. when his father die wali dad be independent and spend two year experiment with the creed of the earth and read book that be of no use to anybody. 
after he have make an unsuccessful attempt to enter the roman catholic church and the presbyterian fold at the same time. the missionary find him out and call him name but they do not understand his trouble. he discover lalun on the city wall and become the most constant of her few admirer. he possess a head that english artist at home would rave over and paint amid impossible surround a face that female novelist would use with delight through nine hundred page. in reality he be only a clean breed young muhammadan with pencil eyebrow small cut nostril little foot and hand and a very tire look in his eye. by virtue of his twenty two year he have grow a neat black beard which he stroke with pride and keep delicately scent. his life seem to be divide between borrow book from me and make love to lalun in the window seat. he compose song about her and some of the song be sing to this day in the city from the street of the mutton butcher to the copper smith ward. 
one song the pretty of all say that the beauty of lalun be so great that it trouble the heart of the british government and cause them to lose their peace of mind. that be the way the song be sing in the street. but if you examine it carefully and know the key to the explanation you will find that there be three pun in it on beauty heart and peace of mind so that it run. by the subtlety of lalun the administration of the government be trouble and it lose such and such a man. when wali dad sing that song his eye glow like hot coal and lalun lean back among the cushion and throw bunch of jasmine bud at wali dad. 
but first it be necessary to explain something about the supreme government which be above all and below all and behind all. gentleman come from england spend a few week in india walk round this great sphinx of the plain and write book upon it way and it work denounce or praise it a their own ignorance prompt. consequently all the world know how the supreme government conduct itself but no one not even the supreme government know everything about the administration of the empire. year by year england send out fresh draft for the first fight line which be officially call the indian civil service. these die or kill themselves by overwork or be worry to death or break in health and hope in order that the land may be protect from death and sickness famine and war and may eventually become capable of stand alone. it will never stand alone but the idea be a pretty one and men be will to die for it and yearly the work of push and coax and scold and pet the country into good live go forward. if an advance be make all credit be give to the native while the englishman stand back and wipe their forehead. if a failure occur the englishman step forward and take the blame. overmuch tenderness of this kind ha breed a strong belief among many native that the native be capable of administer the country and many devout englishman believe this also because the theory be state in beautiful english with all the late political color. 
there be other men who though uneducated see vision and dream dream and they too hope to administer the country in their own way that be to say with a garnish of red sauce. such men must exist among two hundred million people and if they be not attend to may cause trouble and even break the great idol call pax britannic_ which a the newspaper say life between peshawur and cape comorin. be the day of doom to dawn to morrow you would find the supreme government take measure to allay popular excitement and put guard upon the graveyard that the dead might troop forth orderly. the young civilian would arrest gabriel on his own responsibility if the archangel could not produce a deputy commissioner s permission to make music or other noise a the license say. 
whence it be easy to see that mere men of the flesh who would create a tumult must fare badly at the hand of the supreme government. and they do. there be no outward sign of excitement. there be no confusion. there be no knowledge. when due and sufficient reason have be give weigh and approve the machinery move forward and the dreamer of dream and the seer of vision be go from his friend and follow. he enjoy the hospitality of government. there be no restriction upon his movement within certain limit. but he must not confer any more with his brother dreamer. once in every six month the supreme government assure itself that he be well and take formal acknowledgment of his existence. no one protest against his detention because the few people who know about it be in deadly fear of seem to know him. and never a single newspaper take up his case or organize demonstration on his behalf because the newspaper of india have get behind that lie proverb which say the pen be mighty than the sword and can walk delicately. 
so now you know a much a you ought about wali dad the educational mixture and the supreme government. 
lalun ha not yet be describe. she would need so wali dad say a thousand pen of gold and ink scent with musk. she ha be variously compare to the moon the dil sagar lake a spot quail a gazelle the sun on the desert of kutch the dawn the star and the young bamboo. these comparison imply that she be beautiful exceedingly accord to the native standard which be practically the same a those of the west. her eye be black and her hair be black and her eyebrow be black a leech. her mouth be tiny and say witty thing. her hand be tiny and have save much money. her foot be tiny and have tread on the naked heart of many men. but a wali dad sing. lalun be lalun and when you have say that you have only come to the beginning of knowledge. 
the little house on the city wall be just big enough to hold lalun and her maid and a pussy cat with a silver collar. a big pink and blue cut glass chandelier hang from the ceiling of the reception room. a petty nawab have give lalun the horror and she keep it for politeness sake. the floor of the room be of polish chunam white a curd. a latticed window of carve wood be set in one wall. there be a profusion of squabby pluffy cushion and fat carpet everywhere and lalun s silver huqa_ stud with turquoise have a special little carpet all to it shin self. wali dad be nearly a permanent a fixture a the chandelier. a i have say he lay in the window seat and meditate on life and death and lalun specially lalun. the foot of the young men of the city tend to her doorway and then retire for lalun be a particular maiden slow of speech reserve of mind and not in the least incline to orgy which be nearly certain to end in strife. if i be of no value i be unworthy of this honor say lalun. if i be of value they be unworthy of me and that be a crook sentence. 
in the long hot night of latter april and may all the city seem to assemble in lalun s little white room to smoke and to talk. shiah of the grim and most uncompromising persuasion. sufi who have lose all belief in the prophet and retain but little in god. wander hindu priest pass southward on their way to the central india fair and other affair. pundit in black gown with spectacle on their nose and undigested wisdom in their inside. beard headman of the ward. sikh with all the detail of the late ecclesiastical scandal in the golden temple. red eye priest from beyond the border look like trap wolf and talk like raven. m. a. s of the university very superior and very voluble all these people and more also you might find in the white room. wali dad lay in the window seat and listen to the talk. 
it be lalun s salon say wali dad to me and it be electic be not that the word. outside of a freemason s lodge i have never see such gathering. there i din once with a jew a yahoudi. he spat into the city ditch with apology for allow national feeling to overcome him. though i have lose every belief in the world say he and try to be proud of my lose i cannot help hat a jew. lalun admit no jew here. 
but what in the world do all these men do. i ask. 
the curse of our country say wali dad. they talk. it be like the athenian always hear and tell some new thing. ask the pearl and she will show you how much she know of the news of the city and the province. lalun know everything. 
lalun i say at random she be talk to a gentleman of the kurd persuasion who have come in from god know where when doe the th regiment go to agra. 
it doe not go at all say lalun without turn her head. they have order the th to go in it stead. that regiment go to lucknow in three month unless they give a fresh order. 
that be so say wali dad without a shade of doubt. can you with your telegram and your newspaper do good. always hear and tell some new thing he go on. my friend ha your god ever smite a european nation for gossip in the bazar. india ha gossip for century always stand in the bazar until the soldier go by. therefore you be here to day instead of starve in your own country and i be not a muhammadan i be a product a demnition product. that also i owe to you and yours. that i cannot make an end to my sentence without quote from your author. he pull at the huqa and mourn half feelingly half in earnest for the shatter hope of his youth. wali dad be always mourn over something or other the country of which he despair or the creed in which he have lose faith or the life of the english which he could by no mean understand. 
lalun never mourn. she play little song on the sitar_ and to hear her sing _o peacock cry again_ be always a fresh pleasure. she know all the song that have ever be sing from the war song of the south that make the old men angry with the young men and the young men angry with the state to the love song of the north where the sword whinny whicker like angry kite in the pause between the kiss and the pass fill with arm men and the lover be tear from his beloved and cry ai ai ai. evermore. she know how to make up tobacco for the huqa so that it smell like the gate of paradise and waft you gently through them. she could embroider strange thing in gold and silver and dance softly with the moonlight when it come in at the window. also she know the heart of men and the heart of the city and whose wife be faithful and whose untrue and more of the secret of the government office than be good to be set down in this place. nasiban her maid say that her jewelry be worth ten thousand pound and that some night a thief would enter and murder her for it possession. but lalun say that all the city would tear that thief limb from limb and that he whoever he be know it. 
so she take her sitar and sit in the windowseat and sing a song of old day that have be sing by a girl of her profession in an arm camp on the eve of a great battle the day before the ford of the jumna run red and sivaji flee fifty mile to delhi with a toorkh stallion at his horse s tail and another lalun on his saddle bow. it be what men call a mahratta laonee_ and it say. 
their warrior force chimnajee before the peishwa lead the child of the sun and fire behind him turn and flee. 
and the chorus say. 
with them there fight who ride so free with sword and turban red the warrior youth who earn his fee at peril of his head. 
at peril of his head say wali dad in english to me thank to your government all our head be protect and with the educational facility at my command his eye twinkle wickedly i might be a distinguish member of the local administration. perhaps in time i might even be a member of a legislative council. 
don t speak english say lalun bend over her sitar afresh. the chorus go out from the city wall to the blacken wall of fort amara which dominate the city. no man know the precise extent of fort amara. three king build it hundred of year ago and they say that there be mile of underground room beneath it wall. it be people with many ghost a detachment of garrison artillery and a company of infantry. in it prime it hold ten thousand men and fill it ditch with corps. 
at peril of his head sing lalun again and again. 
a head move on one of the rampart the grey head of an old man and a voice rough a shark skin on a sword hilt send back the last line of the chorus and break into a song that i could not understand though lalun and wali dad listen intently. 
what be it. i ask. who be it. 
a consistent man say wali dad. he fight you in when he be a warrior youth. refought you in and he try to fight you in but you have learn the trick of blow men from gun too well. now he be old. but he would still fight if he could. 
be he a wahabi then. why should he answer to a mahratta laonee if he be wahabi or sikh. say i. 
i do not know say wali dad. he ha lose perhaps his religion. perhaps he wish to be a king. perhaps he be a king. i do not know his name. 
that be a lie wali dad. if you know his career you must know his name. 
that be quite true. i belong to a nation of liar. i would rather not tell you his name. think for yourself. 
lalun finish her song point to the fort and say simply. khem singh. 
hm say wali dad. if the pearl choose to tell you the pearl be a fool. 
i translate to lalun who laugh. i choose to tell what i choose to tell. they keep khem singh in burma say she. they keep him there for many year until his mind be change in him. so great be the kindness of the government. find this they send him back to his own country that he might look upon it before he die. he be an old man but when he look upon this his country his memory will come. moreover there be many who remember him. 
he be an interest survival say wali dad pull at the huqa. he return to a country now full of educational and political reform but a the pearl say there be many who remember him. he be once a great man. there will never he any more great men in india. they will all when they be boy go whore after strange god and they will become citizen fellow citizen illustrious fellow citizen. what be it that the native paper call them. 
wali dad seem to be in a very bad temper. lalun look out of the window and smile into the dust haze. i go away think about khem singh who have once make history with a thousand follower and would have be a princeling but for the power of the supreme government aforesaid. 
the senior captain command fort amara be away on leave but the subaltern his deputy drift down to the club where i find him and inquire of him whether it be really true that a political prisoner have be add to the attraction of the fort. the subaltern explain at great length for this be the first time that he have hold command of the fort and his glory lay heavy upon him. 
yes say he a man be send in to me about a week ago from down the line a thorough gentleman whoever he be. of course i do all i could for him. he have his two servant and some silver cook pot and he look for all the world like a native officer. i call him subadar sahib. just a well to be on the safe side y know. look here subadar sahib i say you re hand over to my authority and i m suppose to guard you. now i don t want to make your life hard but you must make thing easy for me. all the fort be at your disposal from the flagstaff to the dry ditch and i shall be happy to entertain you in any way i can but you mustn t take advantage of it. give me your word that you win t try to escape subadar sahib and i ll give you my word that you shall have no heavy guard put over you. i think the best way of get him be by go at him straight y know and it be by jove. the old man give me his word and move about the fort a content a a sick crow. he s a rummy chap always ask to be tell where he be and what the building about him be. i have to sign a slip of blue paper when he turn up acknowledge receipt of his body and all that and i m responsible y know that he doesn t get away. queer thing though look after a johnnie old enough to be your grandfather isn t it. come to the fort one of these day and see him. 
for reason which will appear i never go to the fort while khem singh be then within it wall. i know him only a a grey head see from lalun s window a grey head and a harsh voice. but native tell me that day by day a he look upon the fair land round amara his memory come back to him and with it the old hatred against the government that have be nearly efface in far off burma. so he rag up and down the west face of the fort from morning till noon and from even till the night devise vain thing in his heart and croak war song when lalun sing on the city wall. a he grow more acquaint with the subaltern he unburden his old heart of some of the passion that have wither it. sahib he use to say tap his stick against the parapet when i be a young man i be one of twenty thousand horseman who come out of the city and ride round the plain here. sahib i be the leader of a hundred then of a thousand then of five thousand and now. he point to his two servant. but from the begin to to day i would cut the throat of all the sahib in the land if i could. hold me fast sahib l i get away and return to those who would follow me. i forget them when i be in burma but now that i be in my own country again i remember everything. 
do you remember that you have give me your honor not to make your tendance a hard matter. say the subaltern. 
yes to you only to you sahib say khem singh. to you because you be of a pleasant countenance. if my turn come again sahib i will not hang you nor cut your throat. 
thank you say the subaltern gravely a he look along the line of gun that could pound the city to powder in half an hour. let u go into our own quarter khem singh. come and talk with me after dinner. 
khem singh would sit on his own cushion at the subaltern s foot drink heavy scent anise seed brandy in great gulp and tell strange story of fort amara which have be a palace in the old day of begum and ranee torture to death aye in the very vault chamber that now serve a a mess room. would tell story of sobraon that make the subaltern s cheek flush and tingle with pride of race and of the kuka rise from which so much be expect and the foreknowledge of which be share by a hundred thousand soul. but he never tell tale of because a he say he be the subaltern s guest and be a year that no man black or white care to speak of. once only when the anise seed brandy have slightly affect his head he say. sahib speak now of a matter which lay between sobraon and the affair of the kukas it be ever a wonder to u that you stay your hand at all and that have stay it you do not make the land one prison. now i hear from without that you do great honor to all men of our country and by your own hand be destroy the terror of your name which be your strong rock and defence. this be a foolish thing. will oil and water mix. now in. 
i be not bear then subadar sahib say the subaltern and khem singh reel to his quarter. 
the subaltern would tell me of these conversation at the club and my desire to see khem singh increase. but wali dad sit in the window seat of the house on the city wall say that it would be a cruel thing to do and lalun pretend that i prefer the society of a grizzle old sikh to hers. 
here be tobacco here be talk here be many friend and all the news of the city and above all here be myself. i will tell you story and sing you song and wali dad will talk his english nonsense in your ear. be that bad than watch the cage animal yonder. go to morrow then if you must but to day such and such an one will be here and he will speak of wonderful thing. 
it happen that to morrow never come and the warm heat of the latter rain give place to the chill of early october almost before i be aware of the flight of the year. the captain command the fort return from leave and take over charge of khem singh accord to the law of seniority. the captain be not a nice man. he call all native nigger which besides be extreme bad form show gross ignorance. 
what s the use of tell off two tommies to watch that old nigger. say he. 
i fancy it soothe his vanity say the subaltern. the men be order to keep well out of his way but he take them a a tribute to his importance poor old wretch. 
i win t have line men take off regular guard in this way. put on a couple of native infantry. 
sikh. say the subaltern lift his eyebrow. 
sikh pathan dogras they re all alike these black vermin and the captain talk to khem singh in a manner which hurt that old gentleman s feeling. fifteen year before when he have be catch for the second time every one look upon him a a sort of tiger. he like be regard in this light. but he forget that the world go forward in fifteen year and many subaltern be promote to captaincy. 
the captain pig be in charge of the fort. say khem singh to his native guard every morning. and the native guard say. yes subadar sahib in deference to his age and his air of distinction. but they do not know who he be. 
in those day the gather in lalun s little white room be always large and talk more than before. 
the greek say wali dad who have be borrow my book the inhabitant of the city of athens where they be always hear and tell some new thing rigorously seclude their woman who be fool. hence the glorious institution of the heterodox woman be it not. who be amuse and not fool. all the greek philosopher delight in their company. tell me my friend how it go now in greece and the other place upon the continent of europe. be your woman folk also fool. 
wali dad i say you never speak to u about your woman folk and we never speak about ours to you. that be the bar between u. 
yes say wali dad it be curious to think that our common meet place should be here in the house of a common how do you call her. he point with the pipe mouth to lalun. 
lalun be nothing but lalun i say and that be perfectly true. but if you take your place in the world wali dad and give up dream dream. 
i might wear an english coat and trouser. i might be a lead muhammadan pleader. i might be receive even at the commissioner s tennis party where the english stand on one side and the native on the other in order to promote social intercourse throughout the empire. heart s heart say he to lalun quickly the sahib say that i ought to quit you. 
the sahib be always talk stupid talk return lalun with a laugh. in this house i be a queen and thou art a king. the sahib she put her arm above her head and think for a moment the sahib shall be our vizier thine and mine wali dad because he ha say that thou shouldst leave me. 
wali dad laugh immoderately and i laugh too. be it so say he. my friend be you will to take this lucrative government appointment. lalun what shall his pay be. 
but lalun begin to sing and for the rest of the time there be no hope of get a sensible answer from her or wall dad. when the one stop the other begin to quote persian poetry with a triple pun in every other line. some of it be not strictly proper but it be all very funny and it only come to an end when a fat person in black with gold pince nez_ send up his name to lalun and wali dad drag me into the twinkle night to walk in a big rise garden and talk heresy about religion and government and a man s career in life. 
the mohurrum the great mourn festival of the muhammadan be close at hand and the thing that wali dad say about religious fanaticism would have secure his expulsion from the loose think muslim sect. there be the rise bush round u the star above u and from every quarter of the city come the boom of the big mohurrum drum you must know that the city be divide in fairly equal proportion between the hindu and the musalmans and where both creed belong to the fight race a big religious festival give ample chance for trouble. when they can that be to say when the authority be weak enough to allow it the hindu do their best to arrange some minor feast day of their own in time to clash with the period of general mourn for the martyr hasan and hussain the hero of the mohurrum. gild and paint paper presentation of their tomb be bear with shout and wail music torch and yell through the principal thoroughfare of the city which fakements be call tazias. their passage be rigorously lay down beforehand by the police and detachment of police accompany each tazias_ l the hindu should throw brick at it and the peace of the queen and the head of her loyal subject should thereby be break. mohurrum time in a fight town mean anxiety to all the official because if a riot break out the official and not the rioter be hold responsible. the former must foresee everything and while not make their precaution ridiculously elaborate must see that they be at least adequate. 
listen to the drum. say wali dad. that be the heart of the people empty and make much noise. how think you will the mohurrum go this year. i think that there will be trouble. 
he turn down a side street and leave me alone with the star and a sleepy police patrol. then i go to bed and dream that wali dad have sack the city and i be make vizier with lalun s silver huqa for mark of office. 
all day the mohurrum drum beat in the city and all day deputation of tearful hindu gentleman besiege the deputy commissioner with assurance that they would be murder ere next dawn by the muhammadan. which say the deputy commissioner in confidence to the head of police be a pretty fair indication that the hindu be go to make emselves unpleasant. i think we can arrange a little surprise for them. i have give the head of both creed fair warn. if they choose to disregard it so much the bad for them. 
there be a large gather in lalun s house that night but of men that i have never see before if i except the fat gentleman in black with the gold pince nez. wali dad lay in the window seat more bitterly scornful of his faith and it manifestation than i have ever know him. lalun s maid be very busy cut up and mix tobacco for the guest. we could hear the thunder of the drum a the procession accompany each tazia march to the central gather place in the plain outside the city preparatory to their triumphant reentry and circuit within the wall. all the street seem ablaze with torch and only fort amara be black and silent. 
when the noise of the drum cease no one in the white room speak for a time. the first tazia ha move off say wali dad look to the plain. 
that be very early say the man with the pince nez. 
it be only half past eight. the company rise and depart. 
some of them be men from ladakh say lalun when the last have go. they bring me brick tea such a the russian sell and a tea turn from peshawur. show me now how the english memsahib make tea. 
the brick tea be abominable. when it be finish wali dad suggest go into the street. i be nearly sure that there will be trouble to night he say. all the city think so and vox populi be vox dei_ a the babu say. now i tell you that at the corner of the padshahi gate you will find my horse all this night if you want to go about and to see thing. it be a most disgraceful exhibition. where be the pleasure of say ya hasan ya hussain_ twenty thousand time in a night. 
all the procession there be two and twenty of them be now well within the city wall. the drum be beat afresh the crowd be howl _ya hasan. ya hussain. and beat their breast the brass band be play their loud and at every corner where space allow muhammadan preacher be tell the lamentable story of the death of the martyr. it be impossible to move except with the crowd for the street be not more than twenty foot wide. in the hindu quarter the shutter of all the shop be up and cross bar. a the first tazia_ a gorgeous erection ten foot high be bear aloft on the shoulder of a score of stout men into the semi darkness of the gully of the horseman a brickbat crash through it talc and tinsel side. 
into thy hand o lord. murmur wali dad. profanely a a yell go up from behind and a native officer of police jam his horse through the crowd. another brickbat follow and the tazia stagger and sway where it have stop. 
go on. in the name of the sirkar_ go forward. shout the policeman. but there be an ugly crack and splinter of shutter and the crowd halt with oath and growling before the house whence the brickbat have be throw. 
then without any warn break the storm not only in the gully of the horseman but in half a dozen other place. the tazias rock like ship at sea the long pole torch dip and rise round them while the men shout. the hindu be dishonor the tazias. strike. strike. into their temple for the faith. the six or eight policeman with each tazia draw their baton and strike a long a they could in the hope of force the mob forward but they be overpower and a contingent of hindu pour into the street the fight become general. half a mile away where the tazias be yet untouched the drum and the shriek of _ya hasan. ya hussain. continue but not for long. the priest at the corner of the street knock the leg from the bedstead that support their pulpit and smite for the faith while stone fell from the silent house upon friend and foe and the pack street bellow. _din. din. din. a tazia catch fire and be drop for a flame barrier between hindu and musalman at the corner of the gully. then the crowd surge forward and wali dad draw me close to the stone pillar of a well. 
it be intend from the begin. he shout in my ear with more heat than blank unbelief should be guilty of. the brick be carry up to the house beforehand. these swine of hindu. we shall be gutting kine in their temple to night. 
tazia after tazia_ some burn others tear to piece hurry past u and the mob with them howl shriek and strike at the house door in their flight. at last we saw the reason of the rush. hugonin the assistant district superintendent of police a boy of twenty have get together thirty constable and be force the crowd through the street. his old grey police horse show no sign of uneasiness a it be spur breast on into the crowd and the long dog whip with which he have arm himself be never still. 
they know we haven t enough police to hold em he cry a he pass me mop a cut on his face they know we haven t. aren t any of the men from the club come down to help. get on you son of burn father. the dog whip crack across the writhe back and the constable smite afresh with baton and gun butt. with these pass the light and the shout and wali dad begin to swear under his breath. from fort amara shoot up a single rocket. then two side by side. it be the signal for troop. 
petitt the deputy commissioner cover with dust and sweat but calm and gently smile canter up the clean sweep street in rear of the main body of the rioter no one kill yet he shout. i ll keep em on the run till dawn. don t let em halt hugonin. trot em about till the troop come. 
the science of the defence lay solely in keep the mob on the move. if they have breathe space they would halt and fire a house and then the work of restore order would be more difficult to say the least of it. flame have the same effect on a crowd a blood ha on a wild beast. 
word have reach the club and men in even dress be begin to show themselves and lend a hand in head off and break up the shout mass with stirrup leather whip or chance find stave. they be not very often attack for the rioter have sense enough to know that the death of a european would not mean one hang but many and possibly the appearance of the thrice dread artillery. the clamor in the city redouble. the hindu have descend into the street in real earnest and ere long the mob return. it be a strange sight. there be no tazias only their rive platform and there be no police. here and there a city dignitary hindu or muhammadan be vainly implore his co religionist to keep quiet and behave themselves advice for which his white beard be pull. then a native officer of police unhorse but still use his spur with effect would be bear along warn all the crowd of the danger of insult the government. everywhere men strike aimlessly with stick grasp each other by the throat howl and foam with rage or beat with their bare hand on the door of the house. 
it be a lucky thing that they be fight with natural weapon i say to wali dad else we should have half the city kill. 
i turn a i speak and look at his face. his nostril be distend his eye be fix and he be smite himself softly on the breast. the crowd pour by with renew riot a gang of musalmans hard press by some hundred hindu fanatic. wali dad leave my side with an oath and shout. _ya hasan. ya hussain. plunge into the thick of the fight where i lose sight of him. 
i flee by a side alley to the padshahi gate where i find wali dad s house and thence ride to the fort. once outside the city wall the tumult sink to a dull roar very impressive under the star and reflect great credit on the fifty thousand angry able body men who be make it. the troop who at the deputy commissioner s instance have be order to rendezvous quietly near the fort show no sign of be impress. two company of native infantry a squadron of native cavalry and a company of british infantry be kick their heel in the shadow of the east face wait for order to march in. i be sorry to say that they be all please unholily please at the chance of what they call a little fun. the senior officer to be sure grumble at have be keep out of bed and the english troop pretend to be sulky but there be joy in the heart of all the subaltern and whisper run up and down the line. no ball cartridge what a beastly shame. d you think the beggar will really stand up to u. hope i shall meet my money lender there. i owe him more than i can afford. oh they win t let u even unsheathe sword. hurrah. up go the fourth rocket. fall in there. 
the garrison artillery who to the last cherish a wild hope that they might be allow to bombard the city at a hundred yard range line the parapet above the east gateway and cheer themselves hoarse a the british infantry double along the road to the main gate of the city. the cavalry canter on to the padshahi gate and the native infantry march slowly to the gate of the butcher. the surprise be intend to be of a distinctly unpleasant nature and to come on top of the defeat of the police who have be just able to keep the muhammadan from fire the house of a few lead hindu. the bulk of the riot lay in the north and northwest ward. the east and southeast be by this time dark and silent and i ride hastily to lalun s house for i wish to tell her to send some one in search of wali dad. the house be unlighted but the door be open and i climb upstairs in the darkness. one small lamp in the white room show lalun and her maid lean half out of the window breathe heavily and evidently pull at something that refuse to come. 
thou art late very late gasp lalun without turn her head. help u now o fool if thou hast not spend thy strength howl among the tazias. pull. nasiban and i can do no more. o sahib be it you. the hindu have be hunt an old muhammadan round the ditch with club. if they find him again they will kill him. help u to pull him up. 
i put my hand to the long red silk waist cloth that be hang out of the window and we three pull and pull with all the strength at our command. there be something very heavy at the end and it swear in an unknown tongue a it kick against the city wall. 
pull oh pull. say lalun at the last. a pair of brown hand grasp the window sill and a venerable muhammadan tumble upon the floor very much out of breath. his jaw be tie up his turban have fall over one eye and he be dusty and angry. 
lalun hide her face in her hand for an instant and say something about wali dad that i could not catch. 
then to my extreme gratification she throw her arm round my neck and murmur pretty thing. i be in no haste to stop her. and nasiban be a handmaiden of tact turn to the big jewel chest that stand in the corner of the white room and rummage among the content. the muhammadan sit on the floor and glare. 
one service more sahib since thou hast come so opportunely say lalun. wilt thou it be very nice to be thou ed by lalun take this old man across the city the troop be everywhere and they might hurt him for he be old to the kumharsen gate. there i think he may find a carriage to take him to his house. he be a friend of mine and thou art more than a friend therefore i ask this. 
nasiban bend over the old man tuck something into his belt and i raise him up and lead him into the street. in cross from the east to the west of the city there be no chance of avoid the troop and the crowd. long before i reach the gully of the horseman i hear the shout of the british infantry cry cheeringly. hutt ye beggar. hutt ye devil. get along. go forward there. then follow the ring of rifle butt and shriek of pain. the troop be bang the bare toe of the mob with their gun butt for not a bayonet have be fix. my companion mumble and jabber a we walk on until we be carry back by the crowd and have to force our way to the troop. i catch him by the wrist and felt a bangle there the iron bangle of the sikh but i have no suspicion for lalun have only ten minute before put her arm round me. thrice we be carry back by the crowd and when we make our way past the british infantry it be to meet the sikh cavalry drive another mob before them with the butt of their lance. 
what be these dog. say the old man. 
sikh of the cavalry father i say and we edge our way up the line of horse two abreast and find the deputy commissioner his helmet smash on his head surround by a knot of men who have come down from the club a amateur constable and have help the police mightily. 
we ll keep em on the run till dawn say petitt who s your villainous friend. 
i have only time to say. the protection of the sirkar. when a fresh crowd fly before the native infantry carry u a hundred yard near to the kumharsen gate and petitt be sweep away like a shadow. 
i do not know i cannot see this be all new to me. moan my companion. how many troop be there in the city. 
perhaps five hundred i say. 
a lakh of men beat by five hundred and sikh among them. surely surely i be an old man but the kumharsen gate be new. who pull down the stone lion. where be the conduit. sahib i be a very old man and ala i i cannot stand. he drop in the shadow of the kumharsen gate where there be no disturbance. a fat gentleman wear gold pince nez come out of the darkness. 
you be most kind to bring my old friend he say suavely. he be a landholder of akala. he should not be in a big city when there be religious excitement. but i have a carriage here. you be quite truly kind. will you help me to put him into the carriage. it be very late. 
we bundle the old man into a hire victoria that stand close to the gate and i turn back to the house on the city wall. the troop be drive the people to and fro while the police shout to your house. get to your house. and the dog whip of the assistant district superintendent crack remorselessly. terror stricken bunnias cling to the stirrup of the cavalry cry that their house have be rob. which be a lie. and the burly sikh horseman pat them on the shoulder and bid them return to those house l a bad thing should happen. party of five or six british soldier join arm sweep down the side gully their rifle on their back stamp with shout and song upon the toe of hindu and musalman. never be religious enthusiasm more systematically squash. and never be poor breaker of the peace more utterly weary and footsore. they be rout out of hole and corner from behind well pillar and byre and bid to go to their house. if they have no house to go to so much the bad for their toe. 
on return to lalun s door i stumble over a man at the threshold. he be sob hysterically and his arm flap like the wing of a goose. it be wali dad agnostic and unbeliever shoeless turbanless and froth at the mouth the flesh on his chest bruise and bleed from the vehemence with which he have smite himself. a break torch handle lay by his side and his quiver lip murmur ya hasan. ya hussain. a i stoop over him. i push him a few step up the staircase throw a pebble at lalun s city window and hurry home. 
most of the street be very still and the cold wind that come before the dawn whistle down them. in the centre of the square of the mosque a man be bend over a corpse. the skull have be smash in by gun butt or bamboo stave. 
it be expedient that one man should die for the people say petitt grimly raise the shapeless head. these brute be begin to show their teeth too much. 
and from afar we could hear the soldier sing two lovely black eye a they drive the remnant of the rioter within door. 
* * * * *. 
of course you can guess what happen. i be not so clever. when the news go abroad that khem singh have escape from the fort i do not since i be then live this story not write it connect myself or lalun or the fat gentleman of the gold pince nez_ with his disappearance. nor do it strike me that wali dad be the man who should have convoy him across the city or that lalun s arm round my neck be put there to hide the money that nasiban give to kehm singh and that lalun have use me and my white face a even a good safeguard than wali dad who prove himself so untrustworthy. all that i know at the time be that when fort amara be take up with the riot khem singh profit by the confusion to get away and that his two sikh guard also escape. 
but late on i receive full enlightenment. and so do khem singh. he flee to those who know him in the old day but many of them be dead and more be change and all know something of the wrath of the government. he go to the young men but the glamour of his name have pass away and they be enter native regiment of government office and khem singh could give them neither pension decoration nor influence nothing but a glorious death with their back to the mouth of a gun. he write letter and make promise and the letter fell into bad hand and a wholly insignificant subordinate officer of police track them down and gain promotion thereby. moreover khem singh be old and anise seed brandy be scarce and he have leave his silver cook pot in fort amara with his nice warm bed and the gentleman with the gold pince nez be tell by those who have employ him that khem singh a a popular leader be not worth the money pay. 
great be the mercy of these fool of english. say khem singh when the situation be put before him. i will go back to fort amara of my own free will and gain honor. give me good clothe to return in. 
so at his own time khem singh knock at the wicket gate of the fort and walk to the captain and the subaltern who be nearly grey head on account of correspondence that daily arrive from simla mark private. 
i have come back captain sahib say khem singh put no more guard over me. it be no good out yonder. 
a week late i saw him for the first time to my knowledge and he make a though there be an understand between u. 
it be well do sahib say he and greatly i admire your astuteness in thus boldly face the troop when i whom they would have doubtless tear to piece be with you. now there be a man in fort ooltagarh whom a bold man could with ease help to escape. this be the position of the fort a i draw it on the sand. 
but i be think how i have become lalun s vizier after all. 
the break link handicap. 
while the snaffle hold or the long neck sling while the big beam tilt or the last bell ring while horse be horse to train and to race. then woman and wine take a second place for me for me while a short ten three ha a field to squander or fence to face. 
song of the. g. r. 
there be more way of run a horse to suit your book than pull his head off in the straight. some men forget this. understand clearly that all race be rotten a everything connect with lose money must be. in india in addition to it inherent rottenness it ha the merit of be two third sham. look pretty on paper only. every one know every one else far too well for business purpose. how on earth can you rack and harry and post a man for his lose when you be fond of his wife and live in the same station with him. he say on the monday follow i can t settle just yet. you say all right old man and think yourself lucky if you pull off nine hundred out of a two thousand rupee debt. any way you look at it indian race be immoral and expensively immoral. which be much bad. if a man want your money he ought to ask for it or send round a subscription list instead of juggle about the country with an australian larrikin. a brumby with a much breed a the boy. a brace of chumars in gold lace cap. three or four ekka pony with hog mane and a switch tail demirep of a mare call arab because she ha a kink in her flag. race lead to the shroff quick than anything else. but if you have no conscience and no sentiment and good hand and some knowledge of pace and ten year experience of horse and several thousand rupee a month i believe that you can occasionally contrive to pay your shoe bill. 
do you ever know shackle b. w. g. / coarse loose mule like ear barrel a long a a gatepost tough a a telegraph wire and the queer brute that ever look through a bridle. he be of no brand be one of an ear nick mob take into the bucephalus at . s. a head to make up freight and sell raw and out of condition at calcutta for r. people who lose money on him call him a brumby. but if ever any horse have harpoon s shoulder and the gin s temper shackle be that horse. two mile be his own particular distance. he train himself run himself and ride himself. and if his jockey insult him by give him hint he shut up at once and buck the boy off. he object to dictation. two or three of his owner do not understand this and lose money in consequence. at last he be buy by a man who discover that if a race be to be win shackle and shackle only would win it in his own way so long a his jockey sit still. this man have a rid boy call brunt a lad from perth west australia and he teach brunt with a trainer s whip the hard thing a jock can learn to sit still to sit still and to keep on sit still. when brunt fairly grasp this truth shackle devastate the country. no weight could stop him at his own distance. and the fame of shackle spread from ajmir in the south to chedputter in the north. there be no horse like shackle so long a he be allow to do his work in his own way. but he be beat in the end. and the story of his fall be enough to make angel weep. 
at the low end of the chedputter racecourse just before the turn into the straight the track pass close to a couple of old brick mound enclose a funnel shape hollow. the big end of the funnel be not six foot from the railing on the off side. the astound peculiarity of the course be that if you stand at one particular place about half a mile away inside the course and speak at ordinary pitch your voice just hit the funnel of the brick mound and make a curious whine echo there. a man discover this one morning by accident while out train with a friend. he mark the place to stand and speak from with a couple of brick and he keep his knowledge to himself. every peculiarity of a course be worth remember in a country where rat play the mischief with the elephant litter and steward build jump to suit their own stable. this man run a very fairish country breed a long rack high mare with the temper of a fiend and the pace of an airy wander seraph a drifty glidy stretch. the mare be a a delicate tribute to mr. reiver call the lady regula baddun or for short regula baddun. 
shackle jockey brunt be a quite well behave boy but his nerve have be shake. he begin his career by rid jump race in melbourne where a few steward want lynch and be one of the jockey who come through the awful butchery perhaps you will recollect it of the maribyrnong plate. the wall be colonial rampart log of jarrah spike into masonry with wing a strong a church buttress. once in his stride a horse have to jump or fall. he couldn t run out. in the maribyrnong plate twelve horse be jam at the second wall. red hat lead fell this side and throw out the gled and the ruck come up behind and the space between wing and wing be one struggle scream kick shamble. four jockey be take out dead. three be very badly hurt and brunt be among the three. he tell the story of the maribyrnong plate sometimes. and when he describe how whalley on red hat say a the mare fell under him god ha mercy i m do for. and how next instant sithee there and white otter have crush the life out of poor whalley and the dust hide a small hell of men and horse no one marvel that brunt have drop jump race and australia together. regula baddun s owner know that story by heart. brunt never vary it in the tell. he have no education. 
shackle come to the chedputter autumn race one year and his owner walk about insult the sportsman of chedputter generally till they go to the honorary secretary in a body and say appoint handicapper and arrange a race which shall break shackle and humble the pride of his owner. the district rise against shackle and send up of their best. ousel who be suppose to be able to do his mile in. petard the stud breed train by a cavalry regiment who know how to train. gringalet the ewe lamb of the th. bobolink the pride of peshawar. and many others. 
they call that race the break link handicap because it be to smash shackle. and the handicapper pile on the weight and the fund give eight hundred rupee and the distance be round the course for all horse. shackle owner say you can arrange the race with regard to shackle only. so long a you don t bury him under weight cloth i don t mind. regula baddun s owner say i throw in my mare to fret ousel. six furlong be regula s distance and she will then lie down and die. so also will ousel for his jockey doesn t understand a wait race. now this be a lie for regula have be in work for two month at dehra and her chance be good always suppose that shackle break a blood vessel or brunt move on him. 
the plunge in the lottery be fine. they fill eight thousand rupee lottery on the break link handicap and the account in the pioneer say that favoritism be divide. in plain english the various contingent be wild on their respective horse. for the handicapper have do their work well. the honorary secretary shout himself hoarse through the din. and the smoke of the cheroot be like the smoke and the rattle of the dice box like the rattle of small arm fire. 
ten horse start very level and regula baddun s owner canter out on his hack to a place inside the circle of the course where two brick have be throw. he face toward the brick mound at the low end of the course and wait. 
the story of the run be in the pioneer. at the end of the first mile shackle creep out of the ruck well on the outside ready to get round the turn lay hold of the bite and spin up the straight before the others know he have get away. brunt be sit still perfectly happy listen to the drum drum drum of the hoof behind and know that in about twenty stride shackle would draw one deep breath and go up the last half mile like the fly dutchman. a shackle go short to take the turn and come abreast of the brick mound brunt hear above the noise of the wind in his ear a whine wail voice on the offside say god ha mercy i m do for. in one stride. brunt saw the whole seethe smash of the maribyrnong plate before him start in his saddle and give a yell of terror. the start bring the heel into shackle side and the scream hurt shackle feeling. he couldn t stop dead. but he put out his foot and slide along for fifty yard and then very gravely and judicially buck off brunt a shake terror stricken lump while regula baddun make a neck and neck race with bobolink up the straight and win by a short head petard a bad third. shackle owner in the stand try to think that his field glass have go wrong. regula baddun s owner wait by the two brick give one deep sigh of relief and canter back to the stand. he have win in lottery and bet about fifteen thousand. 
it be a break link handicap with a vengeance. it break nearly all the men concern and nearly break the heart of shackle owner. he go down to interview brunt. the boy lay livid and gasp with fright where he have tumble off. the sin of lose the race never seem to strike him. all he know be that whalley have call him that the call be a warn. and be he cut in two for it he would never get up again. his nerve have go altogether and he only ask his master to give him a good thrash and let him go. he be fit for nothing he say. he get his dismissal and creep up to the paddock white a chalk with blue lip his knee give way under him. people say nasty thing in the paddock. but brunt never heed. he change into tweed take his stick and go down the road still shake with fright and mutter over and over again god ha mercy i m do for. to the best of my knowledge and belief he speak the truth. 
so now you know how the break link handicap be run and win. of course you don t believe it. you would credit anything about russia s design on india or the recommendation of the currency commission. but a little bite of sober fact be more than you can stand. 
on greenhow hill. 
to love s low voice she lend a careless ear. her hand within his rosy finger lay a chill weight. she would not turn or hear. but with avert face go on her way. but when pale death all featureless and grim lift his bony hand and beckon hold out his cypress wreath she follow him and love be leave forlorn and wonder that she who for his bid would not stay at death s first whisper rise and go away. 
rival. 
_oh ahmed din. shafiz ulla ahoo. bahadur khan where be you. come out of the tent a i have do and fight against the english. don t kill your own kin. come out to me. 
the deserter from a native corp be crawl round the outskirt of the camp fire at interval and shout invitation to his old comrade. mislead by the rain and the darkness he come to the english wing of the camp and with his yelp and rifle practice disturb the men. they have be make road all day and be tire. 
ortheris be sleep at learoyd s foot. wot s all that. he say thickly. learoyd snore and a snide bullet rip it way through the tent wall. the men swear it s that bloomin deserter from the aurangabadis say ortheris. git up some one an tell im e s come to the wrong shop. 
go to sleep little man say mulvaney who be steam near the door. i can t arise and expaytiate with him. ti rainin entrenchin tool outside. 
tain t because you bloomin can t. it s cause you bloomin win t ye long limp lousy lazy beggar you. ark to im owlin. 
wot s the good of argifying. put a bullet into the swine. e s keepin u awake. say another voice. 
a subaltern shout angrily and a drip sentry whine from the darkness. 
tain t no good sir. i can t see im. e s idin somewhere down ill. 
ortheris tumble out of his blanket. shall i try to get im sir. say he. 
no be the answer. lie down. i win t have the whole camp shoot all round the clock. tell him to go and pot his friend. 
ortheris consider for a moment. then put his head under the tent wall he call a a bus conductor call in a block igher up there. igher up. 
the men laugh and the laughter be carry down wind to the deserter who hear that he have make a mistake go off to worry his own regiment half a mile away. he be receive with shot. the aurangabadis be very angry with him for disgrace their color. 
an that s all right say ortheris withdraw his head a he hear the hiccough of the sniders in the distance. s elp me gawd tho that man s not fit to live messin with my beauty sleep this way. 
go out and shoot him in the morning then say the subaltern incautiously. silence in the tent now. get your rest men. 
ortheris lay down with a happy little sigh and in two minute there be no sound except the rain on the canvas and the all embrace and elemental snore of learoyd. 
the camp lay on a bare ridge of the himalaya and for a week have be wait for a fly column to make connection. the nightly round of the deserter and his friend have become a nuisance. 
in the morning the men dry themselves in hot sunshine and clean their grimy accoutrement. the native regiment be to take it turn of road make that day while the old regiment loaf. 
i m goin to lay for a shoot at that man say ortheris when he have finish wash out his rifle e come up the watercourse every evenin about five o clock. if we go and lie out on the north ill a bite this afternoon we ll get im. 
you re a bloodthirsty little mosquito say mulvaney blow blue cloud into the air. but i suppose i will have to come wid you. pwhere s jock. 
go out with the mix pickle cause e think isself a bloomin marksman say ortheris with scorn. 
the mix pickle be a detachment of pick shot generally employ in clear spur of hill when the enemy be too impertinent. this teach the young officer how to handle men and do not do the enemy much harm. mulvaney and ortheris stroll out of camp and pass the aurangabadis go to their road make. 
you ve get to sweat to day say ortheris genially. we re go to get your man. you didn t knock im out last night by any chance any of you. 
no. the pig go away mock u. i have one shoot at him say a private he s my cousin and i ought to have clear our dishonor. but good luck to you. 
they go cautiously to the north hill ortheris lead because a he explain this be a long range show an i ve get to do it. his be an almost passionate devotion to his rifle which by barrack room report he be suppose to kiss every night before turn in. charge and scuffle he hold in contempt and when they be inevitable slip between mulvaney and learoyd bid them to fight for his skin a well a their own. they never fail him. he trot along quest like a hound on a break trail through the wood of the north hill. at last he be satisfy and throw himself down on the soft pine needle slope that command a clear view of the watercourse and a brown bare hillside beyond it. the tree make a scent darkness in which an army corp could have hide from the sun glare without. 
ere s the tail o the wood say ortheris. e s get to come up the watercourse cause it give im cover. we ll lay ere. tain t not arf so bloomin dusty neither. 
he bury his nose in a clump of scentless white violet. no one have come to tell the flower that the season of their strength be long past and they have bloom merrily in the twilight of the pine. 
this be something like he say luxuriously. wot a evinly clear drop for a bullet acrost. how much d you make it mulvaney. 
seven hunder. maybe a trifle le bekaze the air s so thin. 
wop. wop. wop. go a volley of musketry on the rear face of the north hill. 
curse them mix pickle firin at nothin. they ll scare arf the country. 
thry a sightin shoot in the middle of the row say mulvaney the man of many wile. there s a red rock yonder he ll be sure to pas. quick. 
ortheris run his sight up to six hundred yard and fire. the bullet throw up a feather of dust by a clump of gentian at the base of the rock. 
good enough. say ortheris snap the scale down. you snick your sight to mine or a little low. you re always firin high. but remember first shoot to me o lordy. but it s a lovely afternoon. 
the noise of the fire grow loud and there be a tramp of men in the wood. the two lay very quiet for they know that the british soldier be desperately prone to fire at anything that move or call. then learoyd appear his tunic rip across the breast by a bullet look ashamed of himself. he fling down on the pine needle breathe in snort. 
one o them damn gardener o th pickle say he finger the rent. firin to th right flank when he know i be there. if i know who he be i d a rippen the hide offan him. look at ma tunic. 
that s the spishil trustability av a marksman. train him to hit a fly wid a stiddy rest at seven hunder an he loose on anythin he see or hear up to th mile. you re well out av that fancy firin gang jock. stay here. 
bin firin at the bloomin wind in the bloomin treetop say ortheris with a chuckle. i ll show you some firin late on. 
they wallow in the pine needle and the sun warm them where they lay. the mix pickle cease fire and return to camp and leave the wood to a few scar ape. the watercourse lift up it voice in the silence and talk foolishly to the rock. now and again the dull thump of a blast charge three mile away tell that the aurangabadis be in difficulty with their road make. the men smile a they listen and lay still soak in the warm leisure. presently learoyd between the whiff of his pipe. 
seem queer about im yonder desertin at all. 
e ll be a bloomin side queer when i ve do with im say ortheris. they be talk in whisper for the stillness of the wood and the desire of slaughter lay heavy upon them. 
i make no doubt he have his reason for desertin. but my faith. i make le doubt ivry man ha good reason for killin him say mulvaney. 
happen there be a lass tewed up wi it. men do more than more for th sake of a lass. 
they make most av u list. they ve no manner av right to make u desert. 
ah. they make u list or their father do say learoyd softly his helmet over his eye. 
ortheris s brow contract savagely. he be watch the valley if it s a girl i ll shoot the beggar twice over an second time for bein a fool. you re blast sentimental all of a sudden thinkin o your last near shave. 
nay lad. ah be but thinkin o what have happen. 
an fwhat ha happen ye lumberin child av calamity that you re low like a cow calf at the back av the pasture an suggestin invidious excuse for the man stanley s goin to kill. ye ll have to wait another hour yet little man. spit it out jock an bellow melojus to the moon. it take an earthquake or a bullet graze to fetch aught out av you. discourse don juan. the a moor av lotharius learoyd. stanley kape a rowlin rig mental eye on the valley. 
it s along o yon hill there say learoyd watch the bare sub himalayan spur that remind him of his yorkshire moor. he be speak more to himself than his fellow. 
ay say he rumbolds moor stand up ower skipton town an greenhow hill stand up ower pately brig. i reckon you ve never heeard tell o greenhow hill but yon bite o bare stuff if there be nobbut a white road windin be like ut. strangely like. moor an moor an moor wi never a tree for shelter an grey house wi flagstone roof and pewit cryin an a windhover goin to and fro just like these kite. and cold. a wind that cut you like a knife. you could tell greenhow hill folk by the red apple color o their cheek an nose tip and their blue eye drive into pin point by the wind. miner mostly burrowin for lead i th hillside followin the trail of th ore vein same a a field rat. it be the rough minin i ever see. yo d come on a bite o creakin wood windlass like a well head an you be let down i th bight of a rope fendin yoursen off the side wi one hand carryin a candle stick in a lump o clay with t other an clickin hold of a rope with t other hand. 
an that s three of them say mulvaney. must be a good climate in those part. 
learoyd take no heed. 
an then yo come to a level where you creep on your hand and knee through a mile o windin drift an you come out into a cave place a big a leeds townhall with a engine pumpin water from workin s at go deep still. it s a queer country let alone minin for the hill be full of those natural cave an the river an the beck drop into what they call pot hole an come out again mile away. 
wot be you doin there. say ortheris. 
i be a young chap then an mostly go wi os leadin coal and lead ore. but at th time i m tellin on i be drivin the waggon team i th big sumph. i didn t belong to that countryside by right. i go there because of a little difference at home an at fust i take up wi a rough lot. one night we d be drinkin an i must ha hed more than i could stand or happen th ale be none so good. though i them day by for god i never seed bad ale. he fling his arm over his head and grip a vast handful of white violet. nah say he i never seed the ale i could not drink the bacca i could not smoke nor the lass i could not kiss. well we mun have a race home the lot on u. i lose all th others an when i be climbin ower one of them wall build o loose stone i come down into the ditch stone and all an break my arm. not a i knawed much about it for i fell on th back of my head an be knock stupid like. an when i come to mysen it be mornin an i be lyin on the settle i jesse roantree s house place an liza roantree be settin sewin. i ache all ower and my mouth be like a limekiln. she give me a drink out of a china mug wi gold letter a present from leeds a i look at many and many a time at after. yo re to lie still while dr. warbottom come because your arm s break and father ha send a lad to fetch him. he find yo when he be goin to work an carry you here on his back sez she. oa. sez i. an i shet my eye for i felt ashamed o mysen. father s go to his work these three hour an he say he tell em to get somebody to drive the tram. the clock tick an a bee come in the house an they ring i my head like mill wheel. an she give me another drink an settle the pillow. eh but yo re young to be getten drink an such like but yo win t do it again will yo. noa sez i i wouldn t if she d not but stop they mill wheel clatterin. 
faith it s a good thing to be nurse by a woman when you re sick. say mulvaney. dir cheap at the price av twenty break head. 
ortheris turn to frown across the valley. he have not be nurse by many woman in his life. 
an then dr. warbottom come ridin up an jesse roantree along with im. he be a high larn doctor but he talk wi poor folk same a theirsens. what s ta bin agaate on naa. he sing out. brekkin tha thick head. an he felt me all ovver. that s none break. tha nobbut knock a bite silly than ordinary an that s daaft eneaf. an soa he go on callin me all the name he could think on but settin my arm wi jesse s help a careful a could be. yo mun let the big oaf bide here a bite jesse he say when he hed strap me up an give me a dose o physic. an you an liza will tend him though he s scarcelins worth the trouble. an tha ll lose tha work sez he an tha ll be upon th sick club for a couple o month an more. doesn t tha think tha s a fool. 
but whin be a young man high or low the other av a fool i d like to know. say mulvaney sure folly s the only safe way to wisdom for i ve thried it. 
wisdom. grin ortheris scan his comrade with uplift chin. you re bloomin solomon you two ain t you. 
learoyd go calmly on with a steady eye like an ox chew the cud. 
and that be how i come to know liza roantree. there s some tune a she use to sing aw she be always singin that fetch greenhow hill before my eye a fair a yon brow across there. and she would learn me to sing bass an i be to go to th chapel wi em where jesse and she lead the singin th old man playin the fiddle. he be a strange chap old jesse fair mad wi music an he make me promise to learn the big fiddle when my arm be good. it belong to him and it stand up in a big case alongside o th eight day clock but willie satterthwaite a play it in the chapel have getten deaf a a door post and it vex jesse a he have to rap him ower his head wi th fiddle stick to make him give ower sawin at th right time. 
but there be a black drop in it all an it be a man in a black coat that bring it. when th primitive methodist preacher come to greenhow he would always stop wi jesse roantree an he lay hold of me from th begin. it seem i wor a soul to be save and he mean to do it. at th same time i jealoused at he be keen o savin liza roantree s soul a well and i could ha kill him many a time. an this go on till one day i break out an borrow th brass for a drink from liza. after fower day i come back wi my tail between my leg just to see liza again. but jesse be at home an th preacher th reverend amos barraclough. liza say naught but a bite o red come into her face a be white of a regular thing. say jesse tryin his best to be civil nay lad it s like this. you ve getten to choose which way it s goin to be. i ll ha nobody across ma doorstep a go a drinkin an borrow my lass s money to spend i their drink. ho d tha tongue liza sez he when she want to put in a word at i be welcome to th brass and she be none afraid that i wouldn t pay it back. then the reverend cut in seein a jesse be losin his temper an they fair beat me among them. but it be liza a look an say naught a do more than either o their tongue an soa i conclude to get convert. 
fwhat. shout mulvaney. then check himself he say softly let be. let be. sure the bless virgin be the mother of all religion an most woman. an there s a dale av piety in a girl if the men would only let ut stay there. i d ha be convert myself under the circumstance. 
nay but pursue learoyd with a blush i mean it. 
ortheris laugh a loudly a he dare have regard to his business at the time. 
ay ortheris you may laugh but you didn t know yon preacher barraclough a little white face chap wi a voice a ud wile a bird off an a bush and a way o layin hold of folk a make them think they d never have a live man for a friend before. you never saw him an an you never seed liza roantree never seed liza roantree. happen it be a much liza a th preacher and her father but anyways they all mean it an i be fair sham o mysen an so i become what they call a change character. and when i think on it s hard to believe a yon chap go to prayermeetin s chapel and class meetin s be me. but i never have naught to say for mysen though there be a deal o shoutin and old sammy strother a be almost clemmed to death and double up with the rheumatic would sing out joyful. joyful. and at it be good to go up to heaven in a coal basket than down to hell i a coach an six. and he would put his poor old claw on my shoulder sayin doesn t tha feel it tha great lump. doesn t tha feel it. an sometimes i think i do and then again i think i didn t an how be that. 
the iverlastin nature av mankind say mulvaney. an furthermore i misdoubt you be build for the primitive methodians. they re a new corp anyways. i hold by the ould church for she s the mother of them all ay an the father too. i like her bekase she s most remarkable regimental in her fitting. i may die in honolulu nova zambra or cape cayenne but wherever i die me bein fwhat i be an a priest handy i go under the same order an the same word an the same unction a tho the pope himself come down from the roof av st. peter s to see me off. there s neither high nor low nor broad nor deep nor betwixt nor between wid her an that s what i like. but mark you she s no manner av church for a wake man bekaze she take the body and the soul av him onless he ha his proper work to do. i remember when my father die that be three month comin to his grave. begad he d ha sell the shebeen above our head for ten minute quittance of purgathory. an he do all he could. that s why i say ut take a strong man to deal with the ould church an for that reason you ll find so many woman go there. an that same s a conundrum. 
wot s the use o worritin bout these thing. say ortheris. you re bind to find all out quick nor you want to any ow. he jerk the cartridge out of the breech block into the palm of his hand. ere s my chaplain he say and make the venomous black head bullet bow like a marionette. e s goin to teach a man all about which be which an wot s true after all before sundown. but wot appened after that jock. 
there be one thing they boggle at and almost shut th gate i my face for and that be my dog blast th only one save out o a litter o pup a be blow up when a keg o minin powder loose off in th storekeeper s hut. they like his name no good than his business which be fightin every dog he come across. a rare good dog wi spot o black and pink on his face one ear go and lame o one side wi be drive in a basket through an iron roof a matter of half a mile. 
they say i mun give him up cause he be worldly and low. and would i let mysen be shut out of heaven for the sake on a dog. nay say i if th door isn t wide enough for th pair on u we ll stop outside for we ll none be part. and th preacher speak up for blast a have a likin for him from th first i reckon that be why i come to like th preacher and wouldn t hear o changin his name to bless a some o them want. so th pair on u become reg lar chapel member. but it s hard for a young chap o my build to cut trace from the world th flesh an the devil all uv a heap. yet i stick to it for a long time while th lad a use to stand about th town end an lean ower th bridge spittin into th beck o a sunday would call after me sitha learoyd when s ta bean to preach cause we re comin to hear tha. ho d tha jaw. he hasn t getten th white choaker on ta morn another lad would say and i have to double my fist hard i th bottom of my sunday coat and say to mysen if twere monday and i warn t a member o the primitive methodist i d leather all th lot of yond. that be th hard of all to know that i could fight and i mustn t fight. 
sympathetic grunt from mulvaney. 
so what wi singin practicin and class meetin s and th big fiddle a he make me take between my knee i spend a deal o time i jesse roantree s house place. but often a i be there th preacher fare to me to go oftener and both th old man an th young woman be please to have him. he live i pately brig a be a goodish step off but he come. he come all the same. i like him a well or good a any man i d ever see i one way and yet i hat him wi all my heart i t other and we watch each other like cat and mouse but civil a you please for i be on my best behavior and he be that fair and open that i be bind to be fair with him. rare good company he be if i hadn t want to wring his cliver little neck half of the time. often and often when he be goin from jesse s i d set him a bite on the road. 
see im ome you mean. say ortheris. 
ay. it s a way we have i yorkshire o seein friend off. you be a friend a i didn t want to come back and he didn t want me to come back neither and so we d walk together toward pately and then he d set me back again and there we d be wal two o clock i the mornin settin each other to an fro like a blast pair o pendulum twixt hill and valley long after th light have go out i liza s window a both on u have be look at pretend to watch the moon. 
ah. break in mulvaney ye d no chanst against the maraudin psalm singer. they ll take the air an the grace instid av the man nine time out av ten an they only find the blunder late the wimmen. 
that s just where yo re wrong say learoyd redden under the freckle tan of his cheek. i be th first wi liza an yo d think that be enough. but th parson be a steady gaited sort o chap and jesse be strong o his side and all th woman i the congregation din it to liza at she be fair fond to take up wi a wastrel ne er do weel like me a be scarcelins respectable an a fight dog at his heel. it be all very well for her to be do me good and save my soul but she must mind a she didn t do herself harm. they talk o rich folk bein stick up an genteel but for cast iron pride o respectability there s naught like poor chapel folk. it s a cold a th wind o greenhow hill ay and cold for twill never change. and now i come to think on it one at strange thing i know be at they couldn t abide th think o soldier. there s a vast o fightin i th bible and there s a deal of methodist i th army. but to hear chapel folk talk yo d think that soldierin be next door an t other side to hangin. i their meetin s all their talk be o fightin. when sammy strother be stick for summat to say in his prayer he d sing out th sword o th lord and o gideon. they be allus at it about puttin on th whole armor o righteousness an fightin the good fight o faith. and then atop o t all they hold a prayer meetin ower a young chap a want to list and nearly deafen him till he pick up his hat and fair run away. and they d tell tale in th sunday school o bad lad a have be thump and bray for bird nest o sunday and playin truant o week day and how they take to wrestlin dog fightin rabbit runnin and drinkin till at last a if twere a hepitaph on a gravestone they damn him across th moor wi an then he go and list for a soldier an they d all fetch a deep breath and throw up their eye like a hen drinkin. 
fwhy be ut. say mulvaney bring down his hand on his thigh with a crack in the name av god fwhy be ut. i ve see ut tu. they cheat an they swindle an they lie an they slander an fifty thing fifty time bad. but the last an the bad by their reckonin be to serve the widdy honest. it s like the talk av childer seein thing all round. 
plucky lot of fightin good fight of whatsername they d do if we didn t see they have a quiet place to fight in. and such fightin a theirs be. cat on the tile. t other callin to which to come on. i d give a month s pay to get some o them broad back beggar in london sweatin through a day s road makin an a night s rain. they d carry on a deal afterward same a we re suppose to carry on. i ve bin turn out of a measly arf license pub down lambeth way full o greasy kebmen fore now say ortheris with an oath. 
maybe you be dhrunk say mulvaney soothingly. 
bad nor that. the forders be drink. i be wearin the queen s uniform. 
i d no particular think to be a soldier i them day say learoyd still keep his eye on the bare hill opposite but this sort o talk put it i my head. they be so good th chapel folk that they tumble ower t other side. but i stick to it for liza s sake specially a she be learn me to sing the bass part in a horotorio a jesse be gettin up. she sing like a throstle hersen and we have practicin s night after night for a matter of three month. 
i know what a horotorio be say ortheris pertly. it s a sort of chaplain s sing song word all out of the bible and hullabaloojah chorus. 
most greenhow hill folk play some instrument or t other an they all sing so you mignt have hear them mile away and they be so please wi the noise they make they didn t fair to want anybody to listen. the preacher sing high second when he wasn t playin the flute an they set me a hadn t get far with big fiddle again willie satterthwaite to jog his elbow when he have to get a gate playin. old jesse be happy if ever a man be for he be th conductor an th first fiddle an th leadin singer beatin time wi his fiddle stick till at time he d rap with it on the table and cry out now you mun all stop. it s my turn and he d face round to his front fair sweat wi pride to sing th tenor solo. but he be grand i th chorus waggin his head fling his arm round like a windmill and singin hisself black in the face. a rare singer be jesse. 
yo see i be not o much account wi em all exceptin to liza roantree and i have a deal o time settin quiet at meeting and horotorio practice to hearken their talk and if it be strange to me at beginnin it get strange still at after when i be shut on it and could study what it mean. 
just after th horotorios come off liza a have allus be weakly like be take very bad. i walk dr. warbottom s horse up and down a deal of time while he be inside where they wouldn t let me go though i fair ache to see her. 
she ll be good i noo lad good i noo he use to say. tha mun ha patience. then they say if i be quiet i might go in and th reverend amos barraclough use to read to her lyin prop up among th pillow. then she begin to mend a bite and they let me carry her on to th settle and when it get warm again she go about same a afore. th preacher and me and blast be a deal together i them day and i one way we be rare good comrade. but i could ha stretch him time and again with a good will. i mind one day he say he would like to go down into th bowel o th earth and see how th lord have build th framework o th everlastin hill. he be one of them chap a have a gift o sayin thing. they roll off the tip of his clever tongue same a mulvaney here a would ha make a rare good preacher if he have nobbut give his mind to it. i lend him a suit o miner s kit a almost bury th little man and his white face down i th coat collar and hat flap look like the face of a boggart and he cower down i th bottom o the waggon. i be drivin a tram a lead up a bite of an incline up to th cave where the engine be pumpin and where th ore be bring up and put into th waggon a go down o themselves me puttin th brake on and th horse a trottin after. long a it be daylight we be good friend but when we get fair into th dark and could nobbut see th day shinin at the hole like a lamp at a street end i feel downright wicked. ma religion drop all away from me when i look back at him a be always comin between me and liza. the talk be at they be to be wed when she get good an i couldn t get her to say yes or nay to it. he begin to sing a hymn in his thin voice and i come out wi a chorus that be all cussin an swearin at my horse an i begin to know how i hat him. he be such a little chap too. i could drop him wi one hand down garstang s copper hole a place where th beck slither ower th edge on a rock and fell wi a bite of a whisper into a pit a no rope i greenhow could plump. 
again learoyd root up the innocent violet. ay he should see th bowel o th earth an never naught else. i could take him a mile or two along th drift and leave him wi his candle douse to cry hallelujah wi none to hear him and say amen. i be to lead him down th ladder way to th drift where jesse roantree be workin and why shouldn t he slip on th ladder wi my foot on his finger till they loose grip and i put him down wi my heel. if i go fust down th ladder i could click hold on him and chuck him over my head so a he should go squshin down the shaft breakin his bone at ev ry timberin a bill appleton do when he be fresh and hadn t a bone leave when he work to th bottom. niver a blast leg to walk from pately. niver an arm to put round liza roantree s waist. niver no more niver no more. 
the thick lip curl back over the yellow teeth and that flush face be not pretty to look upon. mulvaney nod sympathy and ortheris move by his comrade s passion bring up the rifle to his shoulder and search the hillside for his quarry mutter ribaldry about a sparrow a spout and a thunderstorm. the voice of the watercourse supply the necessary small talk till learoyd pick up his story. 
but it s none so easy to kill a man like yon. when i d give up my horse to th lad a take my place and i be showin th preacher th workin s shoutin into his ear across th clang o th pumpin engine i saw he be afraid o naught. and when the lamplight show his black eye i could feel a he be masterin me again. i be no good nor blast chain up short and growlin i the depth of him while a strange dog go safe past. 
th art a coward and a fool i say to mysen. an i wrestle i my mind again him till when we come to garstang s copper hole i lay hold o the preacher and lift him up over my head and hold him into the dark on it. now lad i say it s to be one or t other on u thee or me for liza roantree. why isn t thee afraid for thysen. i say for he be still i my arm a a sack. nay. i m but afraid for thee my poor lad a know naught say he. i set him down on th edge an th beck run still an there be no more buzzin in my head like when th bee come through th window o jesse s house. what dost tha mean. say i. 
i ve often think a thou ought to know say he but twas hard to tell thee. liza roantree s for neither on u nor for nobody o this earth dr. warbottom say and he know her and her mother before her that she be in a decline and she cannot live six month long. he s know it for many a day. steady john. steady. say he. and that weak little man pull me further back and set me again him and talk it all over quiet and still me turnin a bunch o candle in my hand and count them ower and ower again a i listen. a deal on it be th regular preachin talk but there be a vast lot a make me begin to think a he be more of a man than i d ever give him credit for till i be cut a deep for him a i be for mysen. 
six candle we have and we crawl and climb all that day while they last and i say to mysen liza roantree hasn t six month to live. and when we come into th daylight again we be like dead men to look at an blast come behind u without so much a waggin his tail. when i saw liza again she look at me a minute and say who s tell tha. for i see tha know. and she try to smile a she kiss me and i fair break down. 
yo see i be a young chap i them day and have see naught o life let alone death a be allus a waitin. she tell me a dr. warbottom say a greenhow air be too keen and they be goin to bradford to jesse s brother david a work i a mill and i mun hold up like a man and a christian and she d pray for me. well and they go away and the preacher that same back end o th year be appoint to another circuit a they call it and i be leave alone on greenhow hill. 
i try and i try hard to stick to th chapel but tweren t th same thing at after. i hadn t liza s voice to follow i th singin nor her eye a shinin acrost their head. and i th class meeting they say a i mun have some experience to tell and i hadn t a word to say for mysen. 
blast and me mop a good deal and happen we didn t behave ourselves over well for they drop u and wonder however they d come to take u up. i can t tell how we get through th time while i th winter i give up my job and go to bradford. old jesse be at th door o th house in a long street o little house. he d be sendin th child way a be clatterin their clog in th causeway for she be asleep. 
be it thee. he say. but you re not to see her. i ll none have her waken for a nowt like thee. she s goin fast and she mun go in peace. thou lt never be good for naught i th world and a long a thou life thou ll never play the big fiddle. get away lad get away. so he shut the door softly i my face. 
nobody never make jesse my master but it seem to me he be about right and i go away into the town and knock up against a recruit sergeant. the old tale o th chapel folk come buzzin into my head. i be to get away and this be th regular road for the like o me i list there and then take th widow s shillin and have a bunch o ribbon pin i my hat. 
but next day i find my way to david roantree s door and jesse come to open it. say he thou s come back again wi th devil s color flyin thy true color a i always tell thee. 
but i beg and pray of him to let me see her nobbut to say good bye till a woman call down th stairway she say john learoyd s to come up. th old man shift aside in a flash and lay his hand on my arm quite gentle like. but thou lt be quiet john say he for she s rare and weak. thou be allus a good lad. 
her eye be all alive wi light and her hair be thick on the pillow round her but her cheek be thin thin to frighten a man that s strong. nay father yo mayn t say th devil s color. them ribbon be pretty. an she hold out her hand for th hat an she put all straight a a woman will wi ribbon. nay but what they re pretty she say. eh but i d ha like to see thee i thy red coat john for thou be allus my own lad my very own lad and none else. 
she lift up her arm and they come round my neck i a gentle grip and they slack away and she seem faint. now yo mun get away lad say jesse and i pick up my hat and i come downstairs. 
th recruit sergeant be waitin for me at th corner public house. you ve see your sweetheart. say he. yes i ve see her say i. well we ll have a quart now and you ll do your best to forget her say he bein one o them smart bustlin chap. ay sergeant say i. forget her. and i ve be forgettin her ever since. 
he throw away the wilt clump of white violet a he speak. ortheris suddenly rise to his knee his rifle at his shoulder and peer across the valley in the clear afternoon light. his chin cuddle the stock and there be a twitch of the muscle of the right cheek a he sight. private stanley ortheris be engage on his business a speck of white crawl up the watercourse. 
see that beggar. get im. 
seven hundred yard away and a full two hundred down the hillside the deserter of the aurangabadis pitch forward roll down a red rock and lay very still with his face in a clump of blue gentian while a big raven flap out of the pine wood to make investigation. 
that s a clean shoot little man say mulvaney. 
learoyd thoughtfully watch the smoke clear away. happen there be a lass tewed up wi him too say he. 
ortheris do not reply. he be star across the valley with the smile of the artist who look on the complete work. 
to be file for reference. 
by the hoof of the wild goat up toss from the cliff where she lay in the sun fell the stone to the tarn where the daylight be lose. so she fell from the light of the sun and alone. 
now the fall be ordain from the first with the goat and the cliff and the tarn but the stone know only her life be accurse a she sink in the depth of the tarn and alone. 
oh thou who hast build the world. oh thou who hast light the sun. oh thou who hast darken the tarn. judge thou the sin of the stone that be hurl by the goat from the light of the sun a she sink in the mire of the tarn even now even now even now. from the unpublished paper of mcintosh jellaluidin. 
say be it dawn be it dusk in thy bower thou whom i long for who long for me. oh be it night be it here he fell over a little camel colt that be sleep in the serai where the horse trader and the best of the blackguard from central asia live. and because he be very drink indeed and the night be dark he could not rise again till i help him. that be the begin of my acquaintance with mcintosh jellaludin when a loafer and drink sing the song of the bower he must be worth cultivate. he get off the camel s back and say rather thickly i i i m a bite screw but a dip in loggerhead will put me right again. and i say have you speak to symonds about the mare s knee. 
now loggerhead be six thousand weary mile away from u close to mesopotamia where you mustn t fish and poach be impossible and charley symonds stable a half mile farther across the paddock. it be strange to hear all the old name on a may night among the horse and camel of the sultan caravanserai. then the man seem to remember himself and sober down at the same time. we lean against the camel and point to a corner of the serai where a lamp be burn. 
i live there say he and i should be extremely oblige if you would be good enough to help my mutinous foot thither. for i be more than usually drink most most phenomenally tight but not in respect to my head. my brain cry out against how doe it go. but my head ride on the roll on the dunghill i should have say and control the qualm. 
i help him through the gang of tether horse and he collapse on the edge of the veranda in front of the line of native quarter. 
thank a thousand thank. o moon and little little star. to think that a man should so shamelessly. infamous liquor too. ovid in exile drink no bad. good. it be freeze. ala. i have no ice. good night. i would introduce you to my wife be i sober or she civilize. 
a native woman come out of the darkness of the room and begin call the man name. so i go away. he be the most interest loafer that i have have the pleasure of know for a long time. and late on he become a friend of mine. he be a tall well build fair man fearfully shake with drink and he look near fifty than the thirty five which he say be his real age. when a man begin to sink in india and be not send home by his friend a soon a may be he fall very low from a respectable point of view. by the time that he change his creed a do mcintosh he be past redemption. 
in most big city native will tell you of two or three sahibs_ generally low caste who have turn hindu or mussulman and who live more or le a such but it be not often that you can get to know them. a mcintosh himself use to say if i change my religion for my stomach s sake i do not seek to become a martyr to missionary nor be i anxious for notoriety. 
at the outset of acquaintance mcintosh warn me remember this. i be not an object for charity i require neither your money your food nor your cast off raiment. i be that rare animal a self support drunkard. if you choose i will smoke with you for the tobacco of the bazar doe not i admit suit my palate. and i will borrow any book which you may not specially value. it be more than likely that i shall sell them for bottle of excessively filthy country liquor in return you shall share such hospitality a my house afford. here be a charpoy on which two can sit and it be possible that there may from time to time be food in that platter. drink unfortunately you will find on the premise at any hour. and thus i make you welcome to all my poor establishment. 
i be admit to the mcintosh household i and my good tobacco. but nothing else. unluckily one cannot visit a loafer in the serai by day. friend buy horse would not understand it. consequently i be oblige to see mcintosh after dark. he laugh at this and say simply you be perfectly right. when i enjoy a position in society rather high than yours i should have do exactly the same thing. good heaven. i be once he speak a though he have fall from the command of a regiment an oxford man. this account for the reference to charley symonds stable. 
you say mcintosh slowly have not have that advantage. but to outward appearance you do not seem possess of a crave for strong drink. on the whole i fancy that you be the lucky of the two. yet i be not certain. you be forgive my say so even while i be smoke your excellent tobacco painfully ignorant of many thing. 
we be sit together on the edge of his bedstead for he own no chair watch the horse be water for the night while the native woman be prepare dinner. i do not like be patronize by a loafer but i be his guest for the time be though he own only one very tear alpaca coat and a pair of trouser make out of gunny bag. he take the pipe out of his mouth and go on judicially all thing consider i doubt whether you be the lucky. i do not refer to your extremely limit classical attainment or your excruciate quantity but to your gross ignorance of matter more immediately under your notice. that for instance he point to a woman clean a samovar near the well in the centre of the serai. she be flick the water out of the spout in regular cadenced jerk. 
there be way and way of clean samovar. if you know why she be do her work in that particular fashion you would know what the spanish monk mean when he say. 
i the trinity illustrate drink water orange pulp in three sip the arian frustrate while he drain his at one gulp. 
and many other thing which now be hide from your eye. however mr. mcintosh ha prepare dinner. let u come and eat after the fashion of the people of the country of whom by the way you know nothing. 
the native woman dip her hand in the dish with u. this be wrong. the wife should always wait until the husband ha eat. mcintosh jellaludin apologize say. 
it be an english prejudice which i have not be able to overcome. and she love me. why i have never be able to understand. i foregather with her at jullundur three year ago and she ha remain with me ever since. i believe her to be moral and know her to be skilled in cookery. 
he pat the woman s head a he speak and she coo softly. she be not pretty to look at. 
mcintosh never tell me what position he have hold before his fall. he be when sober a scholar and a gentleman. when drink he be rather more of the first than the second. he use to get drink about once a week for two day. on those occasion the native woman tend him while he rave in all tongue except his own. one day indeed he begin recite atalanta in calydon_ and go through it to the end beat time to the swing of the verse with a bedstead leg. but he do most of his raving in greek or german. the man s mind be a perfect rag bag of useless thing. once when he be begin to get sober he tell me that i be the only rational be in the inferno into which he have descend a virgil in the shade he say and that in return for my tobacco he would before he die give me the material of a new inferno that should make me great than dante. then he fell asleep on a horse blanket and wake up quite calm. 
man say he when you have reach the uttermost depth of degradation little incident which would vex a high life be to you of no consequence. last night my soul be among the god. but i make no doubt that my bestial body be writhe down here in the garbage. 
you be abominably drink if that s what you mean i say. 
i be drink filthily drink. i who be the son of a man with whom you have no concern i who be once fellow of a college whose buttery hatch you have not see. i be loathsomely drink. but consider how lightly i be touch. it be nothing to me. le than nothing. for i do not even feel the headache which should be my portion. now in a high life how ghastly would have be my punishment how bitter my repentance. believe me my friend with the neglect education the high be a the low always suppose each degree extreme. 
he turn round on the blanket put his head between his fist and continue. 
on the soul which i have lose and on the conscience which i have kill i tell you that i cannot feel. i be a the god know good and evil but untouched by either. be this enviable or be it not. 
when a man ha lose the warn of next morning s head he must be in a bad state. i answer look at mcintosh on the blanket with his hair over his eye and his lip blue white that i do not think the insensibility good enough. 
for pity s sake don t say that. i tell you it be good and most enviable. think of my consolation. 
have you so many then mcintosh. 
certainly. your attempt at sarcasm which be essentially the weapon of a culture man be crude. first my attainment my classical and literary knowledge blur perhaps by immoderate drink which remind me that before my soul go to the god last night i sell the pickering horace you so kindly loan me. ditta mull the clothesman ha it. it fetch ten anna and may be redeem for a rupee but still infinitely superior to yours. secondly the abide affection of mr. mcintosh best of wife. thirdly a monument more endure than brass which i have build up in the seven year of my degradation. 
he stop here and crawl across the room for a drink of water. he be very shaky and sick. 
he refer several time to his treasure some great possession that he own but i hold this to be the rave of drink. he be a poor and a proud a he could be. his manner be not pleasant but he know enough about the native among whom seven year of his life have be spend to make his acquaintance worth have. he use actually to laugh at strickland a an ignorant man ignorant west and east he say. his boast be first that he be an oxford man of rare and shin part which may or may not have be true i do not know enough to check his statement and secondly that he have his hand on the pulse of native life which be a fact. a an oxford man he strike me a a prig. he be always throw his education about. a a mohammedan faquir a mcintosh jellaludin he be all that i want for my own end. he smoke several pound of my tobacco and teach me several ounce of thing worth know. but he would never accept any gift not even when the cold weather come and grip the poor thin chest under the poor thin alpaca coat. he grow very angry and say that i have insult him and that he be not go into hospital. he have live like a beast and he would die rationally like a man. 
a a matter of fact he die of pneumonia. and on the night of his death send over a grubby note ask me to come and help him to die. 
the native woman be weep by the side of the bed. mcintosh wrap in a cotton cloth be too weak to resent a fur coat be throw over him. he be very active a far a his mind be concern and his eye be blaze. when he have abuse the doctor who come with me so foully that the indignant old fellow leave he curse me for a few minute and calm down. 
then he tell his wife to fetch out the book from a hole in the wall. she bring out a big bundle wrap in the tail of a petticoat of old sheet of miscellaneous note paper all number and cover with fine cramp write. mcintosh plough his hand through the rubbish and stir it up lovingly. 
this he say be my work the book of mcintosh jellaludin show what he saw and how he live and what befall him and others. be also an account of the life and sin and death of mother maturin. what mirza murad ali beg s book be to all other book on native life will my work be to mirza murad ali beg s. 
this a will be concede by any one who know mirza murad ali beg s book be a sweep statement. the paper do not look specially valuable. but mcintosh handle them a if they be currency note. then say he slowly. 
in despite the many weakness of your education you have be good to me. i will speak of your tobacco when i reach the god. i owe you much thank for many kindness. but i abominate indebtedness. for this reason i bequeath to you now the monument more endure than brass my one book rude and imperfect in part but oh how rare in others. i wonder if you will understand it. it be a gift more honorable than. bah. where be my brain ramble to. you will mutilate it horribly. you will knock out the gem you call latin quotation you philistine and you will butch the style to carve into your own jerky jargon. but you cannot destroy the whole of it. i bequeath it to you. ethel. my brain again. mr. mcintosh bear witness that i give the sahib all these paper. they would be of no use to you heart of my heart. and i lay it upon you he turn to me here that you do not let my book die in it present form. it be yours unconditionally the story of mcintosh jellaludin which be not the story of mcintosh jellaludin but of a great man than he and of a far great woman. listen now. i be neither mad nor drink. that book will make you famous. 
i say thank you a the native woman put the bundle into my arm. 
my only baby. say mcintosh with a smile. he be sink fast but he continue to talk a long a breath remain. i wait for the end. know that in six case out of ten a die man call for his mother. he turn on his side and say. 
say how it come into your possession. no one will believe you but my name at least will live. you will treat it brutally i know you will. some of it must go. the public be fool and prudish fool. i be their servant once. but do your mangle gently very gently. it be a great work and i have pay for it in seven year damnation. 
his voice stop for ten or twelve breath and then he begin mumble a prayer of some kind in greek. the native woman cry very bitterly. lastly he rise in bed and say a loudly a slowly not guilty my lord. 
then he fell back and the stupor hold him till he die. the native woman run into the serai among the horse and scream and beat her breast. for she have love him. 
perhaps his last sentence in life tell what mcintosh have once go through. but save the big bundle of old sheet in the cloth there be nothing in his room to say who or what he have be. 
the paper be in a hopeless muddle. 
strickland help me to sort them and he say that the writer be either an extreme liar or a most wonderful person. he think the former. one of these day you may be able to judge for yourselves. the bundle need much expurgation and be full of greek nonsense at the head of the chapter which ha all be cut out. 
if the thing be ever publish some one may perhaps remember this story now print a a safeguard to prove that mcintosh jellaludin and not i myself write the book of mother maturin. 
i don t want the giant s robe to come true in my case. 
the man who would be king. 
brother to a prince and fellow to a beggar if he be find worthy. 
the law a quote lay down a fair conduct of life and one not easy to follow. i have be fellow to a beggar again and again under circumstance which prevent either of u find out whether the other be worthy. i have still to be brother to a prince though i once come near to kinship with what might have be a veritable king and be promise the reversion of a kingdom army law court revenue and policy all complete. but to day i greatly fear that my king be dead and if i want a crown i must go and hunt it for myself. 
the begin of everything be in a railway train upon the road to mhow from ajmir. there have be a deficit in the budget which necessitate travel not second class which be only half a dear a first class but by intermediate which be very awful indeed. there be no cushion in the intermediate class and the population be either intermediate which be eurasian or native which for a long night journey be nasty or loafer which be amuse though intoxicate. intermediate do not patronize refreshment room. they carry their food in bundle and pot and buy sweet from the native sweetmeat seller and drink the roadside water. that be why in the hot weather intermediate be take out of the carriage dead and in all weather be most properly look down upon. 
my particular intermediate happen to be empty till i reach nasirabad when a huge gentleman in shirt sleeve enter and follow the custom of intermediate pass the time of day. he be a wanderer and a vagabond like myself but with an educate taste for whiskey. he tell tale of thing he have see and do of out of the way corner of the empire into which he have penetrate and of adventure in which he risk his life for a few day food. if india be fill with men like you and me not know more than the crow where they d get their next day s ration it isn t seventy million of revenue the land would be pay it s seven hundred million say he. and a i look at his mouth and chin i be dispose to agree with him. we talk politics the politics of loaferdom that see thing from the underside where the lath and plaster be not smooth off and we talk postal arrangement because my friend want to send a telegram back from the next station to ajmir which be the turn off place from the bombay to the mhow line a you travel westward. my friend have no money beyond eight anna which he want for dinner and i have no money at all owe to the hitch in the budget before mention. further i be go into a wilderness where though i should resume touch with the treasury there be no telegraph office. i be therefore unable to help him in any way. 
we might threaten a station master and make him send a wire on tick say my friend but that d mean inquiry for you and for me and i ve get my hand full these day. do you say you be travel back along this line within any day. 
within ten i say. 
can t you make it eight. say he. mine be rather urgent business. 
i can send your telegram within ten day if that will serve you i say. 
i couldn t trust the wire to fetch him now i think of it. it s this way. he leaf delhi on the d for bombay. that mean he ll be run through ajmir about the night of the d. 
but i m go into the indian desert i explain. 
well and good say he. you ll be change at marwar junction to get into jodhpore territory you must do that and he ll be come through marwar junction in the early morning of the th by the bombay mail. can you be at marwar junction on that time. twon t be inconvenience you because i know that there s precious few picking to be get out of these central india state even though you pretend to be correspondent of the backwoodsman. 
have you ever try that trick. i ask. 
again and again but the resident find you out and then you get escort to the border before you ve time to get your knife into them. but about my friend here. i must give him a word o mouth to tell him what s come to me or else he win t know where to go. i would take it more than kind of you if you be to come out of central india in time to catch him at marwar junction and say to him. he ha go south for the week. he ll know what that mean. he s a big man with a red beard and a great swell he be. you ll find him sleep like a gentleman with all his luggage round him in a second class compartment. but don t you be afraid. slip down the window and say. he ha go south for the week and he ll tumble. it s only cut your time of stay in those part by two day. i ask you a a strange go to the west he say with emphasis. 
where have you come from. say i. 
from the east say he and i be hop that you will give him the message on the square for the sake of my mother a well a your own. 
englishman be not usually soften by appeal to the memory of their mother but for certain reason which will be fully apparent i saw fit to agree. 
it s more than a little matter say he and that s why i ask you to do it and now i know that i can depend on you do it. a second class carriage at marwar junction and a red haired man asleep in it. you ll be sure to remember. i get out at the next station and i must hold on there till he come or send me what i want. 
i ll give the message if i catch him i say and for the sake of your mother a well a mine i ll give you a word of advice. don t try to run the central india state just now a the correspondent of the backwoodsman. there s a real one knock about here and it might lead to trouble. 
thank you say he simply and when will the swine be go. i can t starve because he s ruin my work. i want to get hold of the degumber rajah down here about his father s widow and give him a jump. 
what do he do to his father s widow then. 
fill her up with red pepper and slippered her to death a she hang from a beam. i find that out myself and i m the only man that would dare go into the state to get hush money for it. they ll try to poison me same a they do in chortumna when i go on the loot there. but you ll give the man at marwar junction my message. 
he get out at a little roadside station and i reflect. i have hear more than once of men personate correspondent of newspaper and bleed small native state with threat of exposure but i have never meet any of the caste before. they lead a hard life and generally die with great suddenness. the native state have a wholesome horror of english newspaper which may throw light on their peculiar method of government and do their best to choke correspondent with champagne or drive them out of their mind with four in hand barouche. they do not understand that nobody care a straw for the internal administration of native state so long a oppression and crime be keep within decent limit and the ruler be not drug drink or diseased from one end of the year to the other. native state be create by providence in order to supply picturesque scenery tiger and tall write. they be the dark place of the earth full of unimaginable cruelty touch the railway and the telegraph on one side and on the other the day of harun al raschid. when i leave the train i do business with diver king and in eight day pass through many change of life. sometimes i wear dress clothe and consort with prince and politicals drink from crystal and eat from silver. sometimes i lay out upon the grind and devour what i could get from a plate make of a flapjack and drink the run water and sleep under the same rug a my servant. it be all in the day s work. 
then i head for the great indian desert upon the proper date a i have promise and the night mail set me down at marwar junction where a funny little happy go lucky native manage railway run to jodhpore. the bombay mail from delhi make a short halt at marwar. she arrive a i get in and i have just time to hurry to her platform and go down the carriage. there be only one second class on the train. i slip the window and look down upon a flame red beard half cover by a railway rug. that be my man fast asleep and i dig him gently in the rib. he wake with a grunt and i saw his face in the light of the lamp. it be a great and shin face. 
ticket again. say he. 
no say i. i be to tell you that he be go south for the week. he be go south for the week. 
the train have begin to move out. the red man rub his eye. he ha go south for the week he repeat. now that s just like his impidence. do he say that i be to give you anything. cause i win t. 
he didn t i say and drop away and watch the red light die out in the dark. it be horribly cold because the wind be blow off the sand. i climb into my own train not an intermediate carriage this time and go to sleep. 
if the man with the beard have give me a rupee i should have keep it a a memento of a rather curious affair. but the consciousness of have do my duty be my only reward. 
late on i reflect that two gentleman like my friend could not do any good if they foregather and personate correspondent of newspaper and might if they stick up one of the little rat trap state of central india or southern rajputana get themselves into serious difficulty. i therefore take some trouble to describe them a accurately a i could remember to people who would be interest in deport them. and succeed so i be late inform in have them head back from the degumber border. 
then i become respectable and return to an office where there be no king and no incident except the daily manufacture of a newspaper. a newspaper office seem to attract every conceivable sort of person to the prejudice of discipline. zenana mission lady arrive and beg that the editor will instantly abandon all his duty to describe a christian prize give in a back slum of a perfectly inaccessible village. colonel who have be overpassed for command sit down and sketch the outline of a series of ten twelve or twenty four lead article on seniority versus selection. missionary wish to know why they have not be permit to escape from their regular vehicle of abuse and swear at a brother missionary under special patronage of the editorial we. strand theatrical company troop up to explain that they cannot pay for their advertisement but on their return from new zealand or tahiti will do so with interest. inventor of patent punkah pull machine carriage coupling and unbreakable sword and axle tree call with specification in their pocket and hour at their disposal. tea company enter and elaborate their prospectus with the office pen. secretary of ball committee clamor to have the glory of their last dance more fully expound. strange lady rustle in and say. i want a hundred lady s card print at once_ please which be manifestly part of an editor s duty. and every dissolute ruffian that ever tramp the grand trunk road make it his business to ask for employment a a proofreader. and all the time the telephone bell be ring madly and king be be kill on the continent and empire be say you re another and mister gladstone be call down brimstone upon the british dominion and the little black copy boy be whine _kaa pi chay ha yeh_. copy want. like tire bee and most of the paper be a blank a modred s shield. 
but that be the amuse part of the year. there be six other month wherein none ever come to call and the thermometer walk inch by inch up to the top of the glass and the office be darken to just above read light and the press machine be red hot of touch and nobody write anything but account of amusement in the hill station or obituary notice. then the telephone become a tinkle terror because it tell you of the sudden death of men and woman that you know intimately and the prickly heat cover you a with a garment and you sit down and write. a slight increase of sickness be report from the khuda janta khan district. the outbreak be purely sporadic in it nature and thank to the energetic effort of the district authority be now almost at an end. it be however with deep regret we record the death etc. 
then the sickness really break out and the le record and report the good for the peace of the subscriber. but the empire and the king continue to divert themselves a selfishly a before and the foreman think that a daily paper really ought to come out once in twenty four hour and all the people at the hill station in the middle of their amusement say. good gracious. why can t the paper be sparkle. i m sure there s plenty go on up here. 
that be the dark half of the moon and a the advertisement say must be experience to be appreciate. 
it be in that season and a remarkably evil season that the paper begin run the last issue of the week on saturday night which be to say sunday morning after the custom of a london paper. this be a great convenience for immediately after the paper be put to bed the dawn would low the thermometer from to almost for half an hour and in that chill you have no idea how cold be on the grass until you begin to pray for it a very tire man could set off to sleep ere the heat rouse him. 
one saturday night it be my pleasant duty to put the paper to bed alone. a king or courtier or a courtesan or a community be go to die or get a new constitution or do something that be important on the other side of the world and the paper be to be hold open till the late possible minute in order to catch the telegram. it be a pitchy black night a stifle a a june night can be and the loo_ the red hot wind from the westward be boom among the tinder dry tree and pretend that the rain be on it heel. now and again a spot of almost boil water would fall on the dust with the flop of a frog but all our weary world know that be only pretence. it be a shade cool in the press room than the office so i sit there while the type tick and click and the night jar hoot at the window and the all but naked compositor wipe the sweat from their forehead and call for water. the thing that be keep u back whatever it be would not come off though the loo drop and the last type be set and the whole round earth stand still in the choke heat with it finger on it lip to wait the event. i drowse and wonder whether the telegraph be a bless and whether this die man or struggle people be aware of the inconvenience the delay be cause. there be no special reason beyond the heat and worry to make tension but a the clock hand creep up to three o clock and the machine spin their fly wheel two and three time to see that all be in order before i say the word that would set them off i could have shriek aloud. 
then the roar and rattle of the wheel shiver the quiet into little bit. i rise to go away but two men in white clothe stand in front of me. the first one say. it s him. the second say. so it be. and they both laugh almost a loudly a the machinery roar and mop their forehead. we see there be a light burn across the road and we be sleep in that ditch there for coolness and i say to my friend here the office be open. let s come along and speak to him a turn u back from the degumber state say the small of the two. he be the man i have meet in the mhow train and his fellow be the red beard man of marwar junction. there be no mistake the eyebrow of the one or the beard of the other. 
i be not please because i wish to go to sleep not to squabble with loafer. what do you want. i ask. 
half an hour s talk with you cool and comfortable in the office say the red beard man. we d like some drink the contrack doesn t begin yet peachey so you needn t look but what we really want be advice. we don t want money. we ask you a a favor because you do u a bad turn about degumber. 
i lead from the press room to the stifle office with the map on the wall and the red haired man rub his hand. that s something like say he this be the proper shop to come to. now sir let me introduce to you brother peachey carnehan that s him and brother daniel dravot that be me_ and the le say about our profession the good for we have be most thing in our time. soldier sailor compositor photographer proof reader street preacher and correspondent of the backwoodsman when we think the paper want one. carnehan be sober and so be i. look at u first and see that s sure. it will save you cut into my talk. we ll take one of your cigar apiece and you shall see u light. 
i watch the test. the men be absolutely sober so i give them each a tepid peg. 
well and good say carnehan of the eyebrow wipe the froth from his moustache. let me talk now dan we have be all over india mostly on foot. we have be boiler fitter engine driver petty contractor and all that and we have decide that india isn t big enough for such a u. 
they certainly be too big for the office. dravot s beard seem to fill half the room and carnehan s shoulder the other half a they sit on the big table. carnehan continue. the country isn t half work out because they that govern it win t let you touch it. they spend all their bless time in govern it and you can t lift a spade nor chip a rock nor look for oil nor anything like that without all the government say leave it alone and let u govern. therefore such a it be we will let it alone and go away to some other place where a man isn t crowd and can come to his own. we be not little men and there be nothing that we be afraid of except drink and we have sign a contrack on that. therefore_ we be go away to be king. 
king in our own right mutter dravot. 
yes of course i say. you ve be tramp in the sun and it s a very warm night and hadn t you good sleep over the notion. come to morrow. 
neither drink nor sunstruck say dravot. we have sleep over the notion half a year and require to see book and atlas and we have decide that there be only one place now in the world that two strong men can sar a whack. they call it kafiristan. by my reckon it s the top right hand corner of afghanistan not more than three hundred mile from peshawur. they have two and thirty heathen idol there and we ll be the thirty third. it s a mountaineous country and the woman of those part be very beautiful. 
but that be provide against in the contrack say carnehan. neither woman nor liquor daniel. 
and that s all we know except that no one ha go there and they fight and in any place where they fight a man who know how to drill men can always be a king. we shall go to those part and say to any king we find d you want to vanquish your foe. and we will show him how to drill men. for that we know good than anything else. then we will subvert that king and seize his throne and establish a dy nasty. 
you ll be cut to piece before you re fifty mile across the border i say. you have to travel through afghanistan to get to that country. it s one mass of mountain and peak and glacier and no englishman ha be through it. the people be utter brute and even if you reach them you couldn t do anything. 
that s more like say carnehan. if you could think u a little more mad we would be more please. we have come to you to know about this country to read a book about it and to be show map. we want you to tell u that we be fool and to show u your book. he turn to the bookcase. 
be you at all in earnest. i say. 
a little say dravot sweetly. a big a map a you have get even if it s all blank where kafiristan be and any book you ve get. we can read though we aren t very educate. 
i uncase the big thirty two mile to the inch map of india and two small frontier map haul down volume inf kan of the encyclopaedia britannica_ and the men consult them. 
see here. say dravot his thumb on the map. up to jagdallak peachey and me know the road. we be there with robert s army. we ll have to turn off to the right at jagdallak through laghmann territory. then we get among the hill fourteen thousand foot fifteen thousand it will be cold work there but it don t look very far on the map. 
i hand him wood on the source of the oxus. carnehan be deep in the encyclopaedia. 
they re a mix lot say dravot reflectively. and it win t help u to know the name of their tribe. the more tribe the more they ll fight and the good for u. from jagdallak to ashang. h mm. 
but all the information about the country be a sketchy and inaccurate a can be i protest. no one know anything about it really. here s the file of the unite service institute. read what bellew say. 
blow bellew. say carnehan. dan they re an all fire lot of heathen but this book here say they think they re relate to u english. 
i smoke while the men pore over raverty_ wood_ the map and the encyclopaedia. 
there be no use your wait say dravot politely it s about four o clock now. we ll go before six o clock if you want to sleep and we win t steal any of the paper. don t you sit up. we re two harmless lunatic and if you come to morrow even down to the serai we ll say good bye to you. 
you be two fool i answer you ll be turn back at the frontier or cut up the minute you set foot in afghanistan. do you want any money or a recommendation down country. i can help you to the chance of work next week. 
next week we shall be hard at work ourselves thank you say dravot. it isn t so easy be a king a it look. when we ve get our kingdom in go order we ll let you know and you can come up and help u to govern it. 
would two lunatic make a contrack like that. say carnehan with subdue pride show me a greasy half sheet of note paper on which be write the follow. i copy it then and there a a curiosity. 
this contract between me and you persuing witnesseth in the name of god amen and so forth. 
one. that me and you will settle this matter together. i. e. to be king of kafiristan. 
two. that you and me will not while this matter be be settle look at any liquor nor any woman black white or brown so a to get mix up with one or the other harmful. 
three. that we conduct ourselves with dignity and discretion and if one of u get into trouble the other will stay by him. 
sign by you and me this day. 
peachey taliaferro carnehan. 
daniel dravot. 
both gentleman at large. 
there be no need for the last article say carnehan blush modestly. but it look regular. now you know the sort of men that loafer be we be loafer dan until we get out of india and do you think that we would sign a contrack like that unless we be in earnest. we have keep away from the two thing that make life worth have. 
you win t enjoy your life much long if you be go to try this idiotic adventure. don t set the office on fire i say and go away before nine o clock. 
i leave them still pore over the map and make note on the back of the contrack. be sure to come down to the serai to morrow be their part word. 
the kumharsen serai be the great four square sink of humanity where the string of camel and horse from the north load and unload. all the nationality of central asia may be find there and most of the folk of india proper. balkh and bokhara there meet bengal and bombay and try to draw eye teeth. you can buy pony turquoise persian pussy cat saddle bag fat tail sheep and musk in the kumharsen serai and get many strange thing for nothing. in the afternoon i go down there to see whether my friend intend to keep their word or be lie about drink. 
a priest attire in fragment of ribbon and rag stalk up to me gravely twist a child s paper whirligig. behind him be his servant bend under the load of a crate of mud toy the two be load up two camel and the inhabitant of the serai watch them with shriek of laughter. 
the priest be mad say a horse dealer to me he be go up to kabul to sell toy to the amir. he will either be raise to honor or have his head cut off. he come in here this morning and ha be behave madly ever since. 
the witless be under the protection of god stammer a flat cheek usbeg in break hindi. they foretell future event. 
would they could have foretell that my caravan would have be cut up by the shinwaris almost within shadow of the pas. grunt the eusufzai agent of a rajputana trade house whose good have be feloniously divert into the hand of other robber just across the border and whose misfortune be the laugh stock of the bazar. oh priest whence come you and whither do you go. 
from roum have i come shout the priest wave his whirligig. from roum blow by the breath of a hundred devil across the sea. o thief robber liar the bless of pir khan on pig dog and perjurer. who will take the protect of god to the north to sell charm that be never still to the amir. the camel shall not gall the son shall not fall sick and the wife shall remain faithful while they be away of the men who give me place in their caravan. who will assist me to slipper the king of the roos with a golden slipper with a silver heel. the protection of pir khan be upon his labor. he spread out the skirt of his gaberdine and pirouette between the line of tether horse. 
there start a caravan from peshawur to kabul in twenty day huzrut_ say the eusufzai trader my camel go therewith. do thou also go and bring u good luck. 
i will go even now. shout the priest i will depart upon my wing camel and be at peshawur in a day. ho. hazar mir khan he yell to his servant drive out the camel but let me first mount my own. 
he leap on the back of his beast a it kneel and turn round to me cry. come thou also sahib a little along the road and i will sell thee a charm an amulet that shall make thee king of kafiristan. 
then the light break upon me and i follow the two camel out of the serai till we reach open road and the priest halt. 
what d you think o that. say he in english. carnehan can t talk their patter so i ve make him my servant. he make a handsome servant tisn t for nothing that i ve be knock about the country for fourteen year. didn t i do that talk neat. we ll hitch on to a caravan at peshawur till we get to jagdallak and then we ll see if we can get donkey for our camel and strike into kafiristan. whirligig for the amir o lor. put your hand under the camel bag and tell me what you feel. 
i felt the butt of a martini and another and another. 
twenty of em say dravot placidly. twenty of em and ammunition to correspond under the whirligig and the mud doll. 
heaven help you if you be catch with those thing. i say. a martini be worth her weight in silver among the pathan. 
fifteen hundred rupee of capital every rupee we could beg borrow or steal be invest on these two camel say dravot. we win t get catch. we re go through the khaiber with a regular caravan. who d touch a poor mad priest. 
have you get everything you want. i ask overcome with astonishment. 
not yet but we shall soon. give u a memento of your kindness brother. you do me a service yesterday and that time in marwar. half my kingdom shall you have a the say be. i slip a small charm compass from my watch chain and hand it up to the priest. 
good bye say dravot give me hand cautiously. it s the last time we ll shake hand with an englishman these many day. shake hand with him carnehan he cry a the second camel pass me. 
carnehan lean down and shake hand. then the camel pass away along the dusty road and i be leave alone to wonder. my eye could detect no failure in the disguise. the scene in serai attest that they be complete to the native mind. there be just the chance therefore that carnehan and dravot would be able to wander through afghanistan without detection. but beyond they would find death certain and awful death. 
ten day late a native friend of mine give me the news of the day from peshawur wind up his letter with. there ha be much laughter here on account of a certain mad priest who be go in his estimation to sell petty gaud and insignificant trinket which he ascribe a great charm to h. h. the amir of bokhara. he pass through peshawur and associate himself to the second summer caravan that go to kabul. the merchant be please because through superstition they imagine that such mad fellow bring good fortune. 
the two then be beyond the border. i would have pray for them but that night a real king die in europe and demand on obituary notice. 
* * * * *. 
the wheel of the world swing through the same phase again and again. summer pass and winter thereafter and come and pass again. the daily paper continue and i with it and upon the third summer there fell a hot night a night issue and a strain wait for something to be telegraph from the other side of the world exactly a have happen before. a few great men have die in the past two year the machine work with more clatter and some of the tree in the office garden be a few foot tall. but that be all the difference. 
i pass over to the press room and go through just such a scene a i have already describe. the nervous tension be strong than it have be two year before and i felt the heat more acutely. at three o clock i cry print off and turn to go when there creep to my chair what be leave of a man. he be bend into a circle his head be sink between his shoulder and he move his foot one over the other like a bear. i could hardly see whether he walk or crawl this rag wrap whine cripple who address me by name cry that he be come back. can you give me a drink. he whimper. for the lord s sake give me a drink. 
i go back to the office the man follow with groan of pain and i turn up the lamp. 
don t you know me. he gasp drop into a chair and he turn his draw face surmount by a shock of grey hair to the light. 
i look at him intently. once before have i see eyebrow that meet over the nose in an inch broad black band but for the life of me i could not tell where. 
i don t know you i say hand him the whiskey. what can i do for you. 
he take a gulp of the spirit raw and shiver in spite of the suffocate heat. 
i ve come back he repeat. and i be the king of kafiristan me and dravot crown king we be. in this office we settle it you set there and give u the book. i be peachey peachey taliaferro carnehan and you ve be set here ever since o lord. 
i be more than a little astonish and express my feeling accordingly. 
it s true say carnehan with a dry cackle nurse his foot which be wrap in rag. true a gospel. king we be with crown upon our head me and dravot poor dan oh poor poor dan that would never take advice not though i beg of him. 
take the whiskey i say and take your own time. tell me all you can recollect of everything from begin to end. you get across the border on your camel dravot dress a a mad priest and you his servant. do you remember that. 
i ain t mad yet but i shall be that way soon. of course i remember. keep look at me or maybe my word will go all to piece. keep look at me in my eye and don t say anything. 
i lean forward and look into his face a steadily a i could. he drop one hand upon the table and i grasp it by the wrist. it be twist like a bird s claw and upon the back be a rag red diamond shape scar. 
no don t look there. look at me_ say carnehan. 
that come afterward but for the lord s sake don t distrack me. we leave with that caravan me and dravot play all sort of antic to amuse the people we be with. dravot use to make u laugh in the evening when all the people be cook their dinner cook their dinner and. what do they do then. they light little fire with spark that go into dravot s beard and we all laugh fit to die. little red fire they be go into dravot s big red beard so funny. his eye leave mine and he smile foolishly. 
you go a far a jagdallak with that caravan i say at a venture after you have light those fire. to jagdallak where you turn off to try to get into kafiristan. 
no we didn t neither. what be you talk about. we turn off before jagdallak because we hear the road be good. but they wasn t good enough for our two camel mine and dravot s. when we leave the caravan dravot take off all his clothe and mine too and say we would be heathen because the kafir didn t allow mohammedan to talk to them. so we dress betwixt and between and such a sight a daniel dravot i never saw yet nor expect to see again. he burn half his beard and sling a sheep skin over his shoulder and shave his head into pattern. he shave mine too and make me wear outrageous thing to look like a heathen. that be in a most mountaineous country and our camel couldn t go along any more because of the mountain. they be tall and black and come home i saw them fight like wild goat there be lot of goat in kafiristan. and these mountain they never keep still no more than the goat. always fight they be and don t let you sleep at night. 
take some more whiskey i say very slowly. what do you and daniel dravot do when the camel could go no further because of the rough road that lead into kafiristan. 
what do which do. there be a party call peachey taliaferro carnehan that be with dravot. shall i tell you about him. he die out there in the cold. slap from the bridge fell old peachey turn and twist in the air like a penny whirligig that you can sell to the amir. no. they be two for three ha penny those whirligig or i be much mistake and woful sore. and then these camel be no use and peachey say to dravot for the lord s sake let s get out of this before our head be chop off and with that they kill the camel all among the mountain not have anything in particular to eat but first they take off the box with the gun and the ammunition till two men come along drive four mule. dravot up and dance in front of them sing sell me four mule. say the first man if you be rich enough to buy you be rich enough to rob. but before ever he could put his hand to his knife dravot break his neck over his knee and the other party run away. so carnehan load the mule with the rifle that be take off the camel and together we start forward into those bitter cold mountaineous part and never a road broad than the back of your hand. 
he pause for a moment while i ask him if he could remember the nature of the country through which he have journey. 
i be tell you a straight a i can but my head isn t a good a it might be. they drive nail through it to make me hear good how dravot die. the country be mountaineous and the mule be most contrary and the inhabitant be disperse and solitary. they go up and up and down and down and that other party carnehan be implore of dravot not to sing and whistle so loud for fear of bring down the tremenjus avalanche. but dravot say that if a king couldn t sing it wasn t worth be king and whack the mule over the rump and never take no heed for ten cold day. we come to a big level valley all among the mountain and the mule be near dead so we kill them not have anything in special for them or u to eat. we sit upon the box and play odd and even with the cartridge that be jolt out. 
then ten men with bow and arrow run down that valley chase twenty men with bow and arrow and the row be tremenjus. they be fair men fair than you or me with yellow hair and remarkable well build. say dravot unpack the gun this be the begin of the business. we ll fight for the ten men and with that he fire two rifle at the twenty men and drop one of them at two hundred yard from the rock where we be sit. the other men begin to run but carnehan and dravot sit on the box pick them off at all range up and down the valley. then we go up to the ten men that have run across the snow too and they fire a footy little arrow at u. dravot he shoot above their head and they all fall down flat. then he walk over them and kick them and then he lift them up and shake hand all round to make them friendly like. he call them and give them the box to carry and wave his hand for all the world a though he be king already. they take the box and him across the valley and up the hill into a pine wood on the top where there be half a dozen big stone idol. dravot he go to the big a fellow they call imbra and lay a rifle and a cartridge at his foot rub his nose respectful with his own nose pat him on the head and salute in front of it. he turn round to the men and nod his head and say that s all right. i m in the know too and all these old jim jam be my friend. then he open his mouth and point down it and when the first man bring him food he say no. and when the second man bring him food he say no. but when one of the old priest and the bos of the village bring him food he say yes. very haughty and eat it slow. that be how we come to our first village without any trouble just a though we have tumble from the sky. but we tumble from one of those damn rope bridge you see and you couldn t expect a man to laugh much after that. 
take some more whiskey and go on i say. that be the first village you come into. how do you get to be king. 
i wasn t king say carnehan. dravot he be the king and a handsome man he look with the gold crown on his head and all. him and the other party stay in that village and every morning dravot sit by the side of old imbra and the people come and worship. that be dravot s order. then a lot of men come into the valley and carnehan and dravot pick them off with the rifle before they know where they be and run down into the valley and up again the other side and find another village same a the first one and the people all fall down flat on their face and dravot say now what be the trouble between you two village. and the people point to a woman a fair a you or me that be carry off and dravot take her back to the first village and count up the dead eight there be. for each dead man dravot pour a little milk on the grind and wave his arm like a whirligig and that s all right say he. then he and carnehan take the big bos of each village by the arm and walk them down into the valley and show them how to scratch a line with a spear right down the valley and give each a sod of turf from both side o the line. then all the people come down and shout like the devil and all and dravot say go and dig the land and be fruitful and multiply which they do though they didn t understand. then we ask the name of thing in their lingo bread and water and fire and idol and such and dravot lead the priest of each village up to the idol and say he must sit there and judge the people and if anything go wrong he be to be shoot. 
next week they be all turn up the land in the valley a quiet a bee and much pretty and the priest hear all the complaint and tell dravot in dumb show what it be about. that s just the begin say dravot. they think we re god. he and carnehan pick out twenty good men and show them how to click off a rifle and form four and advance in line and they be very please to do so and clever to see the hang of it. then he take out his pipe and his baccy pouch and leaf one at one village and one at the other and off we two go to see what be to be do in the next valley. that be all rock and there be a little village there and carnehan say send em to the old valley to plant and take em there and give em some land that wasn t take before. they be a poor lot and we blood em with a kid before let em into the new kingdom. that be to impress the people and then they settle down quiet and carnehan go back to dravot who have get into another valley all snow and ice and most mountaineous. there be no people there and the army get afraid so dravot shoot one of them and go on till he find some people in a village and the army explain that unless the people want to be kill they have good not shoot their little matchlock. for they have matchlock. we make friend with the priest and i stay there alone with two of the army teach the men how to drill and a thunder big chief come across the snow with kettle drum and horn twang because he hear there be a new god kick about. carnehan sight for the brown of the men half a mile across the snow and wing one of them. then he send a message to the chief that unless he wish to be kill he must come and shake hand with me and leave his arm behind. the chief come alone first and carnehan shake hand with him and whirl his arm about same a dravot use and very much surprise that chief be and stroke my eyebrow. then carnehan go alone to the chief and ask him in dumb show if he have an enemy he hat. i have say the chief. so carnehan weed out the pick of his men and set the two of the army to show them drill and at the end of two week the men can manoeuvre about a well a volunteer. so he march with the chief to a great big plain on the top of a mountain and the chief s men rush into a village and take it. we three martini fire into the brown of the enemy. so we take that village too and i give the chief a rag from my coat and say occupy till i come. which be scriptural. by way of a reminder when me and the army be eighteen hundred yard away i drop a bullet near him stand on the snow and all the people fall flat on their face. then i send a letter to dravot wherever he be by land or by sea. 
at the risk of throw the creature out of train i interrupt how could you write a letter up yonder. 
the letter. oh. the letter. keep look at me between the eye please. it be a string talk letter that we d learn the way of it from a blind beggar in the punjab. 
i remember that there have once come to the office a blind man with a knot twig and a piece of string which he wind round the twig accord to some cypher of his own. he could after the lapse of day or hour repeat the sentence which he have reel up. he have reduce the alphabet to eleven primitive sound. and try to teach me his method but fail. 
i send that letter to dravot say carnehan. and tell him to come back because this kingdom be grow too big for me to handle and then i strike for the first valley to see how the priest be work. they call the village we take along with the chief bashkai and the first village we take er heb. the priest at er heb be do all right but they have a lot of pending case about land to show me and some men from another village have be fire arrow at night. i go out and look for that village and fire four round at it from a thousand yard. that use all the cartridge i care to spend and i wait for dravot who have be away two or three month and i keep my people quiet. 
one morning i hear the devil s own noise of drum and horn and dan dravot march down the hill with his army and a tail of hundred of men and which be the most amaze a great gold crown on his head. my gord carnehan say daniel this be a tremenjus business and we ve get the whole country a far a it s worth have. i be the son of alexander by queen semiramis and you re my young brother and a god too. it s the big thing we ve ever see. i ve be march and fight for six week with the army and every footy little village for fifty mile ha come in rejoiceful. and more than that i ve get the key of the whole show a you ll see and i ve get a crown for you. i tell em to make two of em at a place call shu where the gold lie in the rock like suet in mutton. gold i ve see and turquoise i ve kick out of the cliff and there s garnet in the sand of the river and here s a chunk of amber that a man bring me. call up all the priest and here take your crown. 
one of the men open a black hair bag and i slip the crown on. it be too small and too heavy but i wear it for the glory. hammer gold it be five pound weight like a hoop of a barrel. 
peachey say dravot we don t want to fight no more. the craft s the trick so help me. and he bring forward that same chief that i leave at bashkai billy fish we call him afterward because he be so like billy fish that drive the big tank engine at mach on the bolan in the old day. shake hand with him say dravot and i shake hand and nearly drop for billy fish give me the grip. i say nothing but try him with the fellow craft grip. he answer all right and i try the master s grip but that be a slip. a fellow craft he be. i say to dan. doe he know the word. he doe say dan and all the priest know. it s a miracle. the chief and the priest can work a fellow craft lodge in a way that s very like ours and they ve cut the mark on the rock but they don t know the third degree and they ve come to find out. it s gord s truth. i ve know these long year that the afghan know up to the fellow craft degree but this be a miracle. a god and a grand master of the craft be i and a lodge in the third degree i will open and we ll raise the head priest and the chief of the village. 
it s against all the law i say hold a lodge without warrant from any one. and we never hold office in any lodge. 
it s a master stroke of policy say dravot. it mean run the country a easy a a four wheel bogy on a down grade. we can t stop to inquire now or they ll turn against u. i ve forty chief at my heel and pass and raise accord to their merit they shall be. billet these men on the village and see that we run up a lodge of some kind. the temple of imbra will do for the lodge room. the woman must make apron a you show them. i ll hold a levee of chief to night and lodge to morrow. 
i be fair run off my leg but i wasn t such a fool a not to see what a pull this craft business give u. i show the priest family how to make apron of the degree but for dravot s apron the blue border and mark be make of turquoise lump on white hide not cloth. we take a great square stone in the temple for the master s chair and little stone for the officer chair and paint the black pavement with white square and do what we could to make thing regular. 
at the levee which be hold that night on the hillside with big bonfire dravot give out that him and me be god and son of alexander and past grand master in the craft and be come to make kafiristan a country where every man should eat in peace and drink in quiet and specially obey u. then the chief come round to shake hand and they be so hairy and white and fair it be just shake hand with old friend. we give them name accord a they be like men we have know in india billy fish holly dilworth pikky kergan that be bazar master when i be at mhow and so on and so on. 
_the most amaze miracle be at lodge next night. one of the old priest be watch u continuous and i felt uneasy for i know we d have to fudge the ritual and i didn t know what the men know. the old priest be a strange come in from beyond the village of bashkai. the minute dravot put on the master s apron that the girl have make for him the priest fetch a whoop and a howl and try to overturn the stone that dravot be sit on. it s all up now i say. that come of meddle with the craft without warrant. dravot never wink an eye not when ten priest take and tilt over the grand master s chair which be to say the stone of imbra. the priest begin rub the bottom end of it to clear away the black dirt and presently he show all the other priest the master s mark same a be on dravot s apron cut into the stone. not even the priest of the temple of imbra know it be there. the old chap fall flat on his face at dravot s foot and kiss em. luck again say dravot across the lodge to me they say it s the miss mark that no one could understand the why of. we re more than safe now. then he bang the butt of his gun for a gavel and say. by virtue of the authority vest in me by my own right hand and the help of peachey i declare myself grand master of all freemasonry in kafiristan in this the mother lodge o the country and king of kafiristan equally with peachey. at that he put on his crown and i put on mine i be do senior warden and we open the lodge in most ample form. it be a amaze miracle. the priest move in lodge through the first two degree almost without tell a if the memory be come back to them. after that peachey and dravot raise such a be worthy high priest and chief of far off village. billy fish be the first and i can tell you we scar the soul out of him. it be not in any way accord to ritual but it serve our turn. we didn t raise more than ten of the big men because we didn t want to make the degree common. and they be clamor to be raise. 
in another six month say dravot we ll hold another communication and see how you be work. then he ask them about their village and learn that they be fight one against the other and be fair sick and tire of it. and when they wasn t do that they be fight with the mohammedan. you can fight those when they come into our country say dravot. tell off every tenth man of your tribe for a frontier guard and send two hundred at a time to this valley to be drill. nobody be go to be shoot or spear any more so long a he doe well and i know that you win t cheat me because you re white people son of alexander and not like common black mohammedan. you be my people and by god say he run off into english at the end i ll make a damn fine nation of you or i ll die in the make. 
i can t tell all we do for the next six month because dravot do a lot i couldn t see the hang of and he learn their lingo in a way i never could. my work be to help the people plough and now and again go out with some of the army and see what the other village be do and make em throw rope bridge across the ravine which cut up the country horrid. dravot be very kind to me but when he walk up and down in the pine wood pull that bloody red beard of his with both fist i know he be think plan i could not advise him about and i just wait for order. 
but dravot never show me disrespect before the people. they be afraid of me and the army but they love dan. he be the best of friend with the priest and the chief. but any one could come across the hill with a complaint and dravot would hear him out fair and call four priest together and say what be to be do. he use to call in billy fish from bashkai and pikky kergan from shu and an old chief we call kafuzelum it be like enough to his real name and hold council with em when there be any fight to be do in small village. that be his council of war and the four priest of bashkai shu khawak and madora be his privy council. between the lot of em they send me with forty men and twenty rifle and sixty men carry turquoise into the ghorband country to buy those hand make martini rifle that come out of the amir s workshop at kabul from one of the amir s herati regiment that would have sell the very teeth out of their mouth for turquoise. 
i stay in ghorband a month and give the governor there the pick of my basket for hush money and bribe the colonel of the regiment some more and between the two and the tribespeople we get more than a hundred hand make martini a hundred good kohat jezails that ll throw to six hundred yard and forty man load of very bad ammunition for the rifle. i come back with what i have and distribute em among the men that the chief send to me to drill. dravot be too busy to attend to those thing but the old army that we first make help me and we turn out five hundred men that could drill and two hundred that know how to hold arm pretty straight. even those cork screw hand make gun be a miracle to them. dravot talk big about powder shop and factory walk up and down in the pine wood when the winter be come on. 
i win t make a nation say he. i ll make an empire. these men aren t nigger. they re english. look at their eye look at their mouth. look at the way they stand up. they sit on chair in their own house. they re the lose tribe or something like it and they ve grow to be english. i ll take a census in the spring if the priest don t get frighten. there must be a fair two million of em in these hill. the village be full o little child. two million people two hundred and fifty thousand fight men and all english. they only want the rifle and a little drill. two hundred and fifty thousand men ready to cut in on russia s right flank when she try for india. peachey man he say chew his beard in great hunk we shall be emperor emperor of the earth. rajah brooke will be a suckle to u. i ll treat with the viceroy on equal term. i ll ask him to send me twelve pick english twelve that i know of to help u govern a bite. there s mackray sergeant pensioner at segowli many s the good dinner he s give me and his wife a pair of trouser. there s donkin the warder of tounghoo jail. there s hundred that i could lay my hand on if i be in india. the viceroy shall do it for me. i ll send a man through in the spring for those men and i ll write for a dispensation from the grand lodge for what i ve do a grand master. that and all the sniders that ll be throw out when the native troop in india take up the martini. they ll be wear smooth but they ll do for fight in these hill. twelve english a hundred thousand sniders run through the amir s country in driblet i d be content with twenty thousand in one year and we d be an empire. when everything be shipshape i d hand over the crown this crown i m wear now to queen victoria on my knee and she d say. rise up sir daniel dravot. oh it s big. it s big i tell you. but there s so much to be do in every place bashkai khawak shu and everywhere else. 
what be it. i say. there be no more men come in to be drill this autumn. look at those fat black cloud. they re bring the snow. 
it isn t that say daniel put his hand very hard on my shoulder. and i don t wish to say anything that s against you for no other live man would have follow me and make me what i be a you have do. you re a first class commander in chief and the people know you. but it s a big country and somehow you can t help me peachey in the way i want to be help. 
go to your blast priest then. i say and i be sorry when i make that remark but it do hurt me sore to find daniel talk so superior when i d drill all the men and do all he tell me. 
don t let s quarrel peachey say daniel without curse. you re a king too and the half of this kingdom be yours. but can t you see peachey we want clever men than u now three or four of em that we can scatter about for our deputy. it s a hugeous great state and i can t always tell the right thing to do and i haven t time for all i want to do and here s the winter come on and all. he put half his beard into his mouth and it be a red a the gold of his crown. 
i m sorry daniel say i i ve do all i could. i ve drill the men and show the people how to stack their oat good. and i ve bring in those tinware rifle from ghorband but i know what you re drive at. i take it king always feel oppress that way. 
there s another thing too say dravot walk up and down the winter s come and these people win t be give much trouble and if they do we can t move about. i want a wife. 
for gord s sake leave the woman alone. i say. we ve both get all the work we can though i be a fool. remember the contrack and keep clear o woman. 
the contrack only last till such time a we be king. and king we have be these month past say dravot weigh his crown in his hand. you go get a wife too peachey a nice strappin plump girl that ll keep you warm in the winter. they re pretty than english girl and we can take the pick of em. boil em once or twice in hot water and they ll come a fair a chicken and ham. 
don t tempt me. i say. i will not have any dealing with a woman not till we be a dam side more settle than we be now. i ve be do the work o two men and you ve be do the work o three. let s lie off a bite and see if we can get some good tobacco from afghan country and run in some good liquor. but no woman. 
who s talk o woman. say dravot. i say wife a queen to breed a king s son for the king. a queen out of the strong tribe that ll make them your blood brother and that ll lie by your side and tell you all the people think about you and their own affair. that s what i want. 
do you remember that bengali woman i keep at mogul serai when i be a plate layer. say i. a fat lot o good she be to me. she teach me the lingo and one or two other thing. but what happen. she run away with the station master s servant and half my month s pay. then she turn up at dadur junction in tow of a half caste and have the impidence to say i be her husband all among the driver in the run shed. 
we ve do with that say dravot. these woman be white than you or me and a queen i will have for the winter month. 
for the last time o ask dan do not i say. it ll only bring u harm. the bible say that king ain t to waste their strength on woman specially when they ve get a new raw kingdom to work over. 
for the last time of answer i will say dravot and he go away through the pine tree look like a big red devil. the low sun hit his crown and beard on one side and the two blaze like hot coal. 
but get a wife be not a easy a dan think. he put it before the council and there be no answer till billy fish say that he d good ask the girl. dravot damn them all round. what s wrong with me. he shout stand by the idol imbra. be i a dog or be i not enough of a man for your wench. haven t i put the shadow of my hand over this country. who stop the last afghan raid. it be me really but dravot be too angry to remember. who bring your gun. who repair the bridge. who s the grand master of the sign cut in the stone. and he thump his hand on the block that he use to sit on in lodge and at council which open like lodge always. billy fish say nothing and no more do the others. keep your hair on dan say i. and ask the girl. that s how it s do at home and these people be quite english. 
the marriage of the king be a matter of state say dan in a white hot rage for he could feel i hope that he be go against his good mind. he walk out of the council room and the others sit still look at the grind. 
billy fish say i to the chief of bashkai what s the difficulty here. a straight answer to a true friend. you know say billy fish. how should a man tell you who know everything. how can daughter of men marry god or devil. it s not proper. 
i remember something like that in the bible. but if after see u a long a they have they still believe we be god it wasn t for me to undeceive them. 
a god can do anything say i. if the king be fond of a girl he ll not let her die. she ll have to say billy fish. there be all sort of god and devil in these mountain and now and again a girl marry one of them and isn t see any more. besides you two know the mark cut in the stone. only the god know that. we think you be men till you show the sign of the master. 
i wish then that we have explain about the loss of the genuine secret of a master mason at the first go off. but i say nothing. all that night there be a blow of horn in a little dark temple half way down the hill and i hear a girl cry fit to die. one of the priest tell u that she be be prepare to marry the king. 
i ll have no nonsense of that kind say dan. i don t want to interfere with your custom but i ll take my own wife. the girl s a little bite afraid say the priest. she think she s go to die and they be a hearten of her up down in the temple. 
hearten her very tender then say dravot or i ll hearten you with the butt of a gun so that you ll never want to be hearten again. he lick his lip do dan and stay up walk about more than half the night think of the wife that he be go to get in the morning. i wasn t any mean comfortable for i know that dealing with a woman in foreign part though you be a crown king twenty time over could not but be risky. i get up very early in the morning while dravot be asleep and i saw the priest talk together in whisper and the chief talk together too and they look at me out of the corner of their eye. 
what be up fish. i say to the bashkai man who be wrap up in his fur and look splendid to behold. 
i can t rightly say say he. but if you can induce the king to drop all this nonsense about marriage you ll be do him and me and yourself a great service. 
that i do believe say i. but sure you know billy a well a me have fight against and for u that the king and me be nothing more than two of the fine men that god almighty ever make. nothing more i do assure you. 
that may be say billy fish and yet i should be sorry if it be. he sink his head upon his great fur cloak for a minute and think. king say he be you man or god or devil i ll stick by you to day. i have twenty of my men with me and they will follow me. we ll go to bashkai until the storm blow over. 
a little snow have fall in the night and everything be white except the greasy fat cloud that blow down and down from the north. dravot come out with his crown on his head swing his arm and stamp his foot and look more please than punch. 
for the last time drop it dan say i in a whisper. billy fish here say that there will be a row. 
a row among my people. say dravot. not much. peachey you re a fool not to get a wife too. where s the girl. say he with a voice a loud a the bray of a jackass. call up all the chief and priest and let the emperor see if his wife suit him. 
there be no need to call anyone. they be all there lean on their gun and spear round the clear in the centre of the pine wood. a deputation of priest go down to the little temple to bring up the girl and the horn blow up fit to wake the dead. billy fish saunter round and get a close to daniel a he could and behind him stand his twenty men with matchlock. not a man of them under six foot. i be next to dravot and behind me be twenty men of the regular army. up come the girl and a strap wench she be cover with silver and turquoise but white a death and look back every minute at the priest. 
she ll do say dan look her over. what s to be afraid of lass. come and kiss me. he put his arm round her. she shut her eye give a bite of a squeak and down go her face in the side of dan s flame red beard. 
the slut s bite me. say he clap his hand to his neck and sure enough his hand be red with blood. billy fish and two of his matchlock men catch hold of dan by the shoulder and drag him into the bashkai lot while the priest howl in their lingo neither god nor devil but a man. i be all take aback for a priest cut at me in front and the army behind begin fire into the bashkai men. 
god a mighty. say dan what be the mean o this. 
come back. come away. say billy fish. ruin and mutiny be the matter. we ll break for bashkai if we can. 
i try to give some sort of order to my men the men o the regular army but it be no use so i fire into the brown of em with an english martini and drill three beggar in a line. the valley be full of shout howl creature and every soul be shriek not a god nor a devil but only a man. the bashkai troop stick to billy fish all they be worth but their matchlock wasn t half a good a the kabul breech loader and four of them drop. dan be bellow like a bull for he be very wrathy. and billy fish have a hard job to prevent him run out at the crowd. 
we can t stand say billy fish. make a run for it down the valley. the whole place be against u. the matchlock men run and we go down the valley in spite of dravot s protestation. he be swear horribly and cry out that he be a king. the priest roll great stone on u and the regular army fire hard and there wasn t more than six men not count dan billy fish and me that come down to the bottom of the valley alive. 
then they stop fire and the horn in the temple blow again. come away for gord s sake come away. say billy fish. they ll send runner out to all the village before ever we get to bashkai. i can protect you there but i can t do anything now. 
my own notion be that dan begin to go mad in his head from that hour. he star up and down like a stick pig. then he be all for walk back alone and kill the priest with his bare hand. which he could have do. an emperor be i say daniel and next year i shall be a knight of the queen. 
all right dan say i. but come along now while there s time. 
it s your fault say he for not look after your army good. there be mutiny in the midst and you didn t know you damn engine drive plate lay missionary s pas hunt hound. he sit upon a rock and call me every foul name he could lay tongue to. i be too heart sick to care though it be all his foolishness that bring the smash. 
i m sorry dan say i but there s no account for native. this business be our fifty seven. maybe we ll make something out of it yet when we ve get to bashkai. 
let s get to bashkai then say dan and by god when i come back here again i ll sweep the valley so there isn t a bug in a blanket leave. 
we walk all that day and all that night dan be stump up and down on the snow chew his beard and mutter to himself. 
there s no hope o get clear say billy fish. the priest will have send runner to the village to say that you be only men. why didn t you stick on a god till thing be more settle. i m a dead man say billy fish and he throw himself down on the snow and begin to pray to his god. 
next morning we be in a cruel bad country all up and down no level grind at all and no food either. the six bashkai men look at billy fish hungry wise a if they want to ask something but they say never a word. at noon we come to the top of a flat mountain all cover with snow and when we climb up into it behold there be an army in position wait in the middle. 
the runner have be very quick say billy fish with a little bite of a laugh. they be wait for u. 
three or four men begin to fire from the enemy s side and a chance shoot take daniel in the calf of the leg. that bring him to his sens. he look across the snow at the army and see the rifle that we have bring into the country. 
we re do for say he. they be englishman these people and it s my blast nonsense that ha bring you to this. get back billy fish and take your men away. you ve do what you could and now cut for it. carnehan say he shake hand with me and go along with billy. maybe they win t kill you. i ll go and meet em alone. it s me that do it. me the king. 
go. say i. go to hell dan. i m with you here. billy fish you clear out and we two will meet those folk. 
i m a chief say billy fish quite quiet. i stay with you. my men can go. 
the bashkai fellow didn t wait for a second word but run off and dan and me and billy fish walk across to where the drum be drum and the horn be horn it be cold awful cold. i ve get that cold in the back of my head now. there s a lump of it there. 
the punkah cooly have go to sleep. two kerosene lamp be blaze in the office and the perspiration pour down my face and splash on the blotter a i lean forward. carnehan be shiver and i fear that his mind might go. i wipe my face take a fresh grip of the piteously mangle hand and say. what happen after that. 
the momentary shift of my eye have break the clear current. 
what be you please to say. whine carnehan. they take them without any sound. not a little whisper all along the snow not though the king knock down the first man that set hand on him not though old peachey fire his last cartridge into the brown of em. not a single solitary sound do those swine make. they just close up tight and i tell you their fur stink. there be a man call billy fish a good friend of u all and they cut his throat sir then and there like a pig. and the king kick up the bloody snow and say. we ve have a dash fine run for our money. what s come next. but peachey peachey taliaferro i tell you sir in confidence a betwixt two friend he lose his head sir. no he didn t neither. the king lose his head so he do all along o one of those cunning rope bridge. kindly let me have the paper cutter sir. it tilt this way. they march him a mile across that snow to a rope bridge over a ravine with a river at the bottom. you may have see such. they prod him behind like an ox. damn your eye. say the king. d you suppose i can t die like a gentleman. he turn to peachey peachey that be cry like a child. i ve bring you to this peachey say he. bring you out of your happy life to be kill in kafiristan where you be late commander in chief of the emperor s force. say you forgive me peachey. i do say peachey. fully and freely do i forgive you dan. shake hand peachey say he. i m go now. out he go look neither right nor leave and when he be plumb in the middle of those dizzy dance rope cut you beggar he shout. and they cut and old dan fell turn round and round and round twenty thousand mile for he take half an hour to fall till he strike the water and i could see his body catch on a rock with the gold crown close beside. 
but do you know what they do to peachey between two pine tree. they crucify him sir a peachey s hand will show. they use wooden peg for his hand and his foot. and he didn t die. he hang there and scream and they take him down next day and say it be a miracle that he wasn t dead. they take him down poor old peachey that hadn t do them any harm that hadn t do them any. 
he rock to and fro and weep bitterly wipe his eye with the back of his scar hand and moan like a child for some ten minute. 
they be cruel enough to fee him up in the temple because they say he be more of a god than old daniel that be a man. then they turn him out on the snow and tell him to go home and peachey come home in about a year beg along the road quite safe. for daniel dravot he walk before and say. come along peachey. it s a big thing we re do. the mountain they dance at night and the mountain they try to fall on peachey s head but dan he hold up his hand and peachey come along bend double. he never let go of dan s hand and he never let go of dan s head. they give it to him a a present in the temple to remind him not to come again and though the crown be pure gold and peachey be starve never would peachey sell the same. you know dravot sir. you know right worshipful brother dravot. look at him now. 
he fumble in the mass of rag round his bend waist. bring out a black horsehair bag embroider with silver thread. and shake therefrom on to my table the dry wither head of daniel dravot. the morning sun that have long be pal the lamp strike the red beard and blind sink eye. strike too a heavy circlet of gold stud with raw turquoise that carnehan place tenderly on the batter temple. 
you behold now say carnehan the emperor in his habit a he live the king of kafiristan with his crown upon his head. poor old daniel that be a monarch once. 
i shudder for in spite of defacement manifold i recognize the head of the man of marwar junction. carnehan rise to go. i attempt to stop him. he be not fit to walk abroad. let me take away the whiskey and give me a little money he gasp i be a king once. i ll go to the deputy commissioner and ask to set in the poorhouse till i get my health. no thank you i can t wait till you get a carriage for me i ve urgent private affair in the south at marwar. 
he shamble out of the office and depart in the direction of the deputy commissioner s house. that day at noon i have occasion to go down the blind hot mall and i saw a crook man crawl along the white dust of the roadside his hat in his hand quaver dolorously after the fashion of street singer at home. there be not a soul in sight and he be out of all possible earshot of the house. and he sing through his nose turn his head from right to leave. 
the son of man go forth to war a golden crown to gain. his blood red banner stream afar who follow in his train. 
i wait to hear no more but put the poor wretch into my carriage and drive him off to the near missionary for eventual transfer to the asylum. he repeat the hymn twice while he be with me whom he do not in the least recognize and i leave him sing it to the missionary. 
two day late i inquire after his welfare of the superintendent of the asylum. 
he be admit suffer from sunstroke. he die early yesterday morning say the superintendent. be it true that he be half an hour bareheaded in the sun at midday. 
yes say i but do you happen to know if he have anything upon him by any chance when he die. 
not to my knowledge say the superintendent. 
and there the matter rest. 
the gate of the hundred sorrow. 
if i can attain heaven for a pice why should you be envious. opium smoker s proverb. 
this be no work of mine. my friend gabral misquitta the half caste speak it all between moonset and morning six week before he die. and i take it down from his mouth a he answer my question. so. 
it lie between the coppersmith s gully and the pipe stem seller quarter within a hundred yard too a the crow fly of the mosque of wazir khan. i don t mind tell any one this much but i defy him to find the gate however well he may think he know the city. you might even go through the very gully it stand in a hundred time and be none the wise. we use to call the gully the gully of the black smoke but it native name be altogether different of course. a load donkey couldn t pas between the wall. and at one point just before you reach the gate a bulge house front make people go along all sideways. 
it isn t really a gate though. it s a house. old fung tching have it first five year ago. he be a boot maker in calcutta. they say that he murder his wife there when he be drink. that be why he drop bazar rum and take to the black smoke instead. late on he come up north and open the gate a a house where you could get your smoke in peace and quiet. mind you it be a pukka_ respectable opium house and not one of those stifle swelter chandoo khanas_ that you can find all over the city. no. the old man know his business thoroughly and he be most clean for a chinaman. he be a one eye little chap not much more than five foot high and both his middle finger be go. all the same he be the handy man at roll black pill i have ever see. never seem to be touch by the smoke either. and what he take day and night night and day be a caution. i ve be at it five year and i can do my fair share of the smoke with any one. but i be a child to fung tching that way. all the same the old man be keen on his money. very keen. and that s what i can t understand. i hear he save a good deal before he die but his nephew ha get all that now. and the old man s go back to china to be bury. 
he keep the big upper room where his best customer gather a neat a a new pin. in one corner use to stand fung tching s joss almost a ugly a fung tching and there be always stick burn under his nose. but you never smell em when the pipe be go thick. opposite the joss be fung tching s coffin. he have spend a good deal of his saving on that and whenever a new man come to the gate he be always introduce to it. it be lacquer black with red and gold writing on it and i ve hear that fung tching bring it out all the way from china. i don t know whether that s true or not but i know that if i come first in the even i use to spread my mat just at the foot of it. it be a quiet corner you see and a sort of breeze from the gully come in at the window now and then. besides the mat there be no other furniture in the room only the coffin and the old joss all green and blue and purple with age and polish. 
fung tching never tell u why he call the place the gate of the hundred sorrow. he be the only chinaman i know who use bad sound fancy name. most of them be flowery. a you ll see in calcutta. we use to find that out for ourselves. nothing grow on you so much if you re white a the black smoke. a yellow man be make different. opium doesn t tell on him scarcely at all. but white and black suffer a good deal. of course there be some people that the smoke doesn t touch any more than tobacco would at first. they just doze a bite a one would fall asleep naturally and next morning they be almost fit for work. now i be one of that sort when i begin but i ve be at it for five year pretty steadily and it s different now. there be an old aunt of mine down agra way and she leave me a little at her death. about sixty rupee a month secure. sixty isn t much. i can recollect a time seem hundred and hundred of year ago that i be get my three hundred a month and picking when i be work on a big timber contract in calcutta. 
i didn t stick to that work for long. the black smoke doe not allow of much other business. and even though i be very little affect by it a men go i couldn t do a day s work now to save my life. after all sixty rupee be what i want. when old fung tching be alive he use to draw the money for me give me about half of it to live on. i eat very little. and the rest he keep himself. i be free of the gate at any time of the day and night and could smoke and sleep there when i like so i didn t care. i know the old man make a good thing out of it. but that s no matter. nothing matter much to me. and besides the money always come fresh and fresh each month. 
there be ten of u meet at the gate when the place be first open. me and two baboo from a government office somewhere in anarkulli but they get the sack and couldn t pay. no man who ha to work in the daylight can do the black smoke for any length of time straight on. a chinaman that be fung tching s nephew. a bazar woman that have get a lot of money somehow. an english loafer mac somebody i think but i have forget that smoke heap but never seem to pay anything. they say he have save fung tching s life at some trial in calcutta when he be a barrister. another eurasian like myself from madras. a half caste woman and a couple of men who say they have come from the north. i think they must have be persian or afghan or something. there be not more than five of u live now but we come regular. i don t know what happen to the baboo. but the bazar woman she die after six month of the gate and i think fung tching take her bangle and nose ring for himself. but i m not certain. the englishman he drink a well a smoke and he drop off. one of the persian get kill in a row at night by the big well near the mosque a long time ago and the police shut up the well because they say it be full of foul air. they find him dead at the bottom of it. so you see there be only me the chinaman the half caste woman that we call the memsahib. she use to live with fung tching. the other eurasian and one of the persian. the memsahib look very old now. i think she be a young woman when the gate be open. but we be all old for the matter of that. hundred and hundred of year old. it be very hard to keep count of time in the gate and besides time doesn t matter to me. i draw my sixty rupee fresh and fresh every month. a very very long while ago when i use to be get three hundred and fifty rupee a month and picking on a big timber contract at calcutta i have a wife of sort. but she s dead now. people say that i kill her by take to the black smoke. perhaps i do but it s so long since that it doesn t matter. sometimes when i first come to the gate i use to feel sorry for it. but that s all over and do with long ago and i draw my sixty rupee fresh and fresh every month and be quite happy. not drink happy you know but always quiet and soothe and content. 
how do i take to it. it begin at calcutta. i use to try it in my own house just to see what it be like. i never go very far but i think my wife must have die then. anyhow i find myself here and get to know fung tching. i don t remember rightly how that come about. but he tell me of the gate and i use to go there and somehow i have never get away from it since. mind you though the gate be a respectable place in fung tching s time where you could be comfortable and not at all like the chandoo khanas where the nigger go. no. it be clean and quiet and not crowd. of course there be others beside u ten and the man. but we always have a mat apiece with a wad woolen headpiece all cover with black and red dragon and thing. just like the coffin in the corner. 
at the end of one s third pipe the dragon use to move about and fight. i ve watch em many and many a night through. i use to regulate my smoke that way and now it take a dozen pipe to make em stir. besides they be all tear and dirty like the mat and old fung tching be dead. he die a couple of year ago and give me the pipe i always use now a silver one with queer beast crawl up and down the receiver bottle below the cup. before that i think i use a big bamboo stem with a copper cup a very small one and a green jade mouthpiece. it be a little thick than a walk stick stem and smoke sweet very sweet. the bamboo seem to suck up the smoke. silver doesn t and i ve get to clean it out now and then that s a great deal of trouble but i smoke it for the old man s sake. he must have make a good thing out of me but he always give me clean mat and pillow and the best stuff you could get anywhere. 
when he die his nephew tsin ling take up the gate and he call it the temple of the three possession. but we old one speak of it a the hundred sorrow all the same. the nephew doe thing very shabbily and i think the memsahib must help him. she life with him. same a she use to do with the old man. the two let in all sort of low people nigger and all and the black smoke isn t a good a it use to be. i ve find burn bran in my pipe over and over again. the old man would have die if that have happen in his time. besides the room be never clean and all the mat be tear and cut at the edge. the coffin be go go to china again with the old man and two ounce of smoke inside it in case he should want em on the way. 
the joss doesn t get so many stick burn under his nose a he use to. that s a sign of ill luck a sure a death. he s all brown too and no one ever attend to him. that s the memsahib s work i know. because when tsin ling try to burn gild paper before him she say it be a waste of money and if he keep a stick burn very slowly the joss wouldn t know the difference. so now we ve get the stick mix with a lot of glue and they take half an hour long to burn and smell stinky. let alone the smell of the room by itself. no business can get on if they try that sort of thing. the joss doesn t like it. i can see that. late at night sometimes he turn all sort of queer color blue and green and red just a he use to do when old fung tching be alive. and he roll his eye and stamp his foot like a devil. 
i don t know why i don t leave the place and smoke quietly in a little room of my own in the bazar. most like tsin ling would kill me if i go away he draw my sixty rupee now and besides it s so much trouble and i ve grow to be very fond of the gate. it s not much to look at. not what it be in the old man s time but i couldn t leave it. i ve see so many come in and out. and i ve see so many die here on the mat that i should be afraid of die in the open now. i ve see some thing that people would call strange enough. but nothing be strange when you re on the black smoke except the black smoke. and if it be it wouldn t matter. fung tching use to be very particular about his people and never get in any one who d give trouble by die messy and such. but the nephew isn t half so careful. he tell everywhere that he keep a first chop house. never try to get men in quietly and make them comfortable like fung tching do. that s why the gate be get a little bite more know than it use to be. among the nigger of course. the nephew daren t get a white or for matter of that a mix skin into the place. he ha to keep u three of course me and the memsahib and the other eurasian. we re fixture. but he wouldn t give u credit for a pipeful not for anything. 
one of these day i hope i shall die in the gate. the persian and the madras man be terribly shaky now. they ve get a boy to light their pipe for them. i always do that myself. most like i shall see them carry out before me. i don t think i shall ever outlive the memsahib or tsin ling. woman last long than men at the black smoke and tsin ling ha a deal of the old man s blood in him though he doe smoke cheap stuff. the bazar woman know when she be go two day before her time. and she die on a clean mat with a nicely wad pillow and the old man hang up her pipe just above the joss. he be always fond of her i fancy. but he take her bangle just the same. 
i should like to die like the bazar woman on a clean cool mat with a pipe of good stuff between my lip. when i feel i m go i shall ask tsin ling for them and he can draw my sixty rupee a month fresh and fresh a long a he plea. then i shall lie back quiet and comfortable and watch the black and red dragon have their last big fight together. and then. well it doesn t matter. nothing matter much to me only i wish tsin ling wouldn t put bran into the black smoke. 
the incarnation of krishna mulvaney. 
wohl auf my bully cavalier we ride to church to day the man that hasn t get a horse must steal one straight away. 
* * * * *. 
be reverent men remember this be a gottes haus. du conrad cut along d aisle and schenck d whiskey au. 
han breitmann s ride to church. 
once upon a time very far from england there live three men who love each other so greatly that neither man nor woman could come between them. they be in no sense refine nor to be admit to the out door mat of decent folk because they happen to be private soldier in her majesty s army. and private soldier of our service have small time for self culture. their duty be to keep themselves and their accoutrement specklessly clean to refrain from get drink more often than be necessary to obey their superior and to pray for a war. all these thing my friend accomplish. and of their own motion throw in some fight work for which the army regulation do not call. their fate send them to serve in india which be not a golden country though poet have sing otherwise. there men die with great swiftness and those who live suffer many and curious thing. i do not think that my friend concern themselves much with the social or political aspect of the east. they attend a not unimportant war on the northern frontier another one on our western boundary and a third in upper burma. then their regiment sit still to recruit and the boundless monotony of cantonment life be their portion. they be drill morning and even on the same dusty parade grind. they wander up and down the same stretch of dusty white road attend the same church and the same grog shop and sleep in the same lime wash barn of a barrack for two long year. there be mulvaney the father in the craft who have serve with various regiment from bermuda to halifax old in war scar reckless resourceful and in his pious hour an unequalled soldier. to him turn for help and comfort six and a half foot of slow move heavy foot yorkshireman bear on the wold breed in the dale and educate chiefly among the carrier cart at the back of york railway station. his name be learoyd and his chief virtue an unmitigated patience which help him to win fight. how ortheris a fox terrier of a cockney ever come to be one of the trio be a mystery which even to day i cannot explain. there be always three av u mulvaney use to say. an by the grace av god so long a our service last three av u they ll always be. ti betther so. 
they desire no companionship beyond their own and it be evil for any man of the regiment who attempt dispute with them. physical argument be out of the question a regard mulvaney and the yorkshireman. and assault on ortheris mean a combine attack from these twain a business which no five men be anxious to have on their hand. therefore they flourish share their drink their tobacco and their money. good luck and evil. battle and the chance of death. life and the chance of happiness from calicut in southern to peshawur in northern india. 
through no merit of my own it be my good fortune to be in a measure admit to their friendship frankly by mulvaney from the begin sullenly and with reluctance by learoyd and suspiciously by ortheris who hold to it that no man not in the army could fraternize with a red coat. like to like say he. i m a bloomin sodger he s a bloomin civilian. tain t natural that s all. 
but that be not all. they thaw progressively and in the thaw tell me more of their life and adventure than i be ever likely to write. 
omit all else this tale begin with the lamentable thirst that be at the begin of first cause. never be such a thirst mulvaney tell me so. they kick against their compulsory virtue but the attempt be only successful in the case of ortheris. he whose talent be many go forth into the highway and steal a dog from a civilian videlicet_ some one he know not who not in the army. now that civilian be but newly connect by marriage with the colonel of the regiment and outcry be make from quarter least anticipate by ortheris and in the end he be force l a bad thing should happen to dispose at ridiculously unremunerative rate of a promise a small terrier a ever grace one end of a lead string. the purchase money be barely sufficient for one small outbreak which lead him to the guard room. he escape however with nothing bad than a severe reprimand and a few hour of punishment drill. not for nothing have he acquire the reputation of be the best soldier of his inch in the regiment. mulvaney have teach personal cleanliness and efficiency a the first article of his companion creed. a dhirty man he be use to say in the speech of his kind go to clink for a weakness in the knee an be coort martialled for a pair av sock missin. but a clane man such a be an ornament to his service a man whose button be gold whose coat be wax upon him an whose coutrements be widout a speck that man may spakin in reason do fwhat he like an dhrink from day to divil. that s the pride av bein dacint. 
we sit together upon a day in the shade of a ravine far from the barrack where a watercourse use to run in rainy weather. behind u be the scrub jungle in which jackal peacock the grey wolf of the northwestern province and occasionally a tiger estrayed from central india be suppose to dwell. in front lay the cantonment glare white under a glare sun. and on either side run the broad road that lead to delhi. 
it be the scrub that suggest to my mind the wisdom of mulvaney take a day s leave and go upon a shoot tour. the peacock be a holy bird throughout india and he who slay one be in danger of be mob by the near villager. but on the last occasion that mulvaney have go forth he have contrive without in the least offend local religious susceptibility to return with six beautiful peacock skin which he sell to profit. it seem just possible then. 
but fwhat manner av use be ut to me goin out widout a dhrink. the grind s powdher dhry underfoot an ut get unto the throat fit to kill wail mulvaney look at me reproachfully. an a peacock be not a bird you can catch the tail av onless ye run. can a man run on wather an jungle wather too. 
ortheris have consider the question in all it bearing. he speak chew his pipe stem meditatively the while. 
go forth return in glory to clusium s royal ome. an round these bloomin temple ang the bloomin shield o rome. 
you good go. you ain t like to shoot yourself not while there s a chanst of liquor. me an learoyd ll stay at ome an keep shop case o anythin turnin up. but you go out with a gas pipe gun an ketch the little peacock or somethin. you kin get one day s leave easy a winkin. go along an get it an get peacock or somethin. 
jock say mulvaney turn to learoyd who be half asleep under the shadow of the bank. he rouse slowly. 
sitha mulvaaney go say he. 
and mulvaney go. curse his ally with irish fluency and barrack room point. 
take note say he when he have win his holiday and appear dress in his rough clothe with the only other regimental fowl piece in his hand. take note jock an you orth ri i be goin in the face av my own will all for to please you. i misdoubt anythin will come av permiscuous huntin afther peacock in a desolit lan. an i know that i will lie down an die wid thirrrst. me catch peacock for you ye lazy scutts an be sacrifice by the peasanthry ugh. 
he wave a huge paw and go away. 
at twilight long before the appoint hour he return empty hand much begrime with dirt. 
peacock. query ortheris from the safe rest of a barrack room table whereon he be smoke cross legged learoyd fast asleep on a bench. 
jock say mulvaney without answer a he stir up the sleeper. jock can ye fight. will ye fight. 
very slowly the mean of the word communicate itself to the half rouse man. he understand and again what might these thing mean. mulvaney be shake him savagely. meantime the men in the room howl with delight. there be war in the confederacy at last war and the break of bond. 
barrack room etiquette be stringent. on the direct challenge must follow the direct reply. this be more bind than the tie of try friendship. once again mulvaney repeat the question. learoyd answer by the only mean in his power and so swiftly that the irishman have barely time to avoid the blow. the laughter around increase. learoyd look bewilderedly at his friend himself a greatly bewilder. ortheris drop from the table because his world be fall. 
come outside say mulvaney and a the occupant of the barrack room prepare joyously to follow he turn and say furiously there will be no fight this night onless any wan av you be wishful to assist. the man that doe follow on. 
no man move. the three pass out into the moonlight learoyd fumble with the button of his coat. the parade grind be desert except for the scurry jackal. mulvaney s impetuous rush carry his companion far into the open ere learoyd attempt to turn round and continue the discussion. 
be still now. twas my fault for beginnin thing in the middle av an end jock. i should ha comminst wid an explanation. but jock dear on your sowl be ye fit think you for the fine fight that iv be betther than fightin me. considher before ye answer. 
more than ever puzzle learoyd turn round two or three time felt an arm kick tentatively and answer ah m fit. he be accustom to fight blindly at the bid of the superior mind. 
they sit them down the men look on from afar and mulvaney untangle himself in mighty word. 
followin your fool scheme i wint out into the thrackless desert beyond the barricks. an there i meet a pious hindu dhriving a bullock kyart. i tuk ut for grant he wud be delight for to convoy me a piece an i jump in. 
you long lazy black haired swine drawl ortheris who would have do the same thing under similar circumstance. 
twas the height av policy. that naygur man dhruv mile an mile a far a the new railway line they re buildin now back av the tavi river. ti a kyart for dhirt only say he now an again timoreously to get me out av ut. dhirt i be sez i an the dhryest that you iv kyarted. dhrive on me son an glory be wid you. at that i wint to slape an take no heed till he pull up on the embankmmt av the line where the cooly be pilin mud. there be a matther av two thousand cooly on that line you remimber that. prisintly a bell ring an they throops off to a big pay shed. where s the white man in charge. sez i to my kyart dhriver. in the shed sez he engage on a riffle a fwhat. sez i. riffle sez he you take ticket. he take money. you get nothin. oho. sez i that s fwhat the shuperior an cultivate man call a raffle me misbeguided child av darkness an sin. lead on to that raffle though fwhat the mischief ti doin so far away from ut home which be the charity bazaar at christmas an the colonel s wife grinnin behind the tea table be more than i know. wid that i wint to the shed an find twas payday among the cooly. their wage be on a table forninst a big fine red buck av a man sivun fut high four fut wide an three fut thick wid a fist on him like a corn sack. he be payin the cooly fair an easy but he wud ask each man if he wud raffle that month an each man sez yes av course. thin he wud deduct from their wage accordin. whin all be pay he fill an ould cigar box full av gun wad an scatthered ut among the cooly. they do not take much joy av that performince an small wondher. a man close to me pick up a black gun wad an sing out i have ut good may ut do you. sez i. the coolie wint forward to this big fine red man who throw a cloth off av the most sumpshus jooled enamel an variously bedivilled sedan chair i iv saw. 
sedan chair. put your ead in a bag. that be a palanquin. don t yer know a palanquin when you see it. say ortheris with great scorn. 
i chuse to call ut sedan chair an chair ut shall be little man continue the irishman. twas a most amazin chair all line wid pink silk an fit wid red silk curtain. here ut be sez the red man. here ut be sez the coolie an he grin weakly way. be ut any use to you. sez the red man. no sez the coolie. i d like to make a presint av ut to you. i be graciously please to accept that same sez the red man. an at that all the cooly cry aloud in fwhat be mint for cheerful note an wint back to their diggin lavin me alone in the shed. the red man saw me an his face grow blue on his big fat neck. fwhat d you want here. sez he. standin room an no more sez i onless it may be fwhat ye niver have an that s manner ye rafflin ruffian for i be not goin to have the service throd upon. out of this sez he. i m in charge av this section av construction. i m in charge av mesilf sez i an it s like i will stay a while. d ye raffle much in these part. fwhat s that to you. sez he. nothin sez i but a great dale to you for begad i m thinkin you get the full half av your revenue from that sedan chair. be ut always raffle so. i sez an wid that i wint to a coolie to ask question. bhoys that man s name be dearsley an he s be rafflin that ould sedan chair monthly this matther av nine month. ivry coolie on the section take a ticket or he give em the go wanst a month on pay day. ivry coolie that win ut give ut back to him for ti too big to carry away an he d sack the man that thried to sell ut. that dearsley ha be makin the rowlin wealth av roshus by nefarious rafflin. think av the burnin shame to the sufferin coolie man that the army in injia be bind to protect an nourish in their bosom. two thousand cooly defraud wanst a month. 
dom t cooly. ha t get t cheer man. say learoyd. 
hould on. havin onearthed this amazin an stupenjus fraud commit by the man dearsley i hild a council av war. he thryin all the time to sejuce me into a fight wid opprobrious language. that sedan chair niver belong by right to any foreman av cooly. ti a king s chair or a quane s. there s gold on ut an silk an all manner av trapesemints. bhoys ti not for me to countenance any sort av wrong doin me bein the ould man but anyway he ha have ut nine month an he dare not make throuble av ut be take from him. five mile away or ut may be six. 
there be a long pause and the jackal howl merrily. learoyd bar one arm and contemplate it in the moonlight. then he nod partly to himself and partly to his friend. ortheris wriggle with suppress emotion. 
i think ye wud see the reasonableness av ut say mulvaney. i make bould to say a much to the man before. he be for a direct front attack fut horse an gun an all for nothin seein that i have no thransport to convey the machine away. i will not argue wid you sez i this day but subsequintly mister dearsley me rafflin jool we talk ut out lengthways. ti no good policy to swindle the naygur av his hard earn emolumints an by presint informa shin twas the kyart man that tould me ye ve be perpethrating that same for nine month. but i m a just man sez i an over lookin the presumpshin that yondher settee wid the gild top be not come by honust at that he turn sky green so i know thing be more thrue than tellable not come by honust. i m willin to compound the felony for this month s winnin s. 
ah. ho. from learoyd and ortheris. 
that man dearsley s rushin on his fate continue mulvaney solemnly wag his head. all hell have no name bad enough for me that tide. faith he call me a robber. me. that be savin him from continuin in his evil way widout a remonstrince an to a man av conscience a remonstrince may change the chune av his life. ti not for me to argue sez i fwhatever ye be mister dearsley but by my hand i ll take away the temptation for you that lie in that sedan chair. you will have to fight me for ut sez he for well i know you will never dare make report to any one. fight i will sez i but not this day for i m rejuced for want av nourishment. ye re an ould bould hand sez he sizin me up an down. an a jool av a fight we will have. eat now an dhrink an go your way. wid that he give me some hump an whisky good whisky an we talk av this an that the while. it go hard on me now sez i wipin my mouth to confiscate that piece av furniture but justice be justice. ye ve not get ut yet sez he. there s the fight between. there be sez i an a good fight. ye shall have the pick av the best quality in my rigimint for the dinner you have give this day. thin i come hot foot to you two. hould your tongue the both. ti this way. to morrow we three will go there an he shall have his pick betune me an jock. jock s a deceivin fighter for he be all fat to the eye an he move slow. now i m all beef to the look an i move quick. by my reckonin the dearsley man win t take me. so me an orth ri ll see fair play. jock i tell you twill be big fightin whip wid the cream above the jam. afther the business twill take a good three av u jock ll be very hurt to haul away that sedan chair. 
palanquin. this from ortheris. 
fwhatever ut be we must have ut. ti the only sellin piece av property widin reach that we can get so cheap. an fwhat s a fight afther all. he ha rob the naygur man dishonust. we rob him honust for the sake av the whisky he give me. 
but wot ll we do with the bloomin article when we ve get it. them palanquin be a big a ouse an uncommon ard to sell a mccleary say when ye steal the sentry box from the curragh. 
who s goin to do t fightin. say learoyd and ortheris subside. the three return to barrack without a word. mulvaney s last argument clinch the matter. this palanquin be property vendible and to be attain in the simple and least embarrass fashion. it would eventually become beer. great be mulvaney. 
next afternoon a procession of three form itself and disappear into the scrub in the direction of the new railway line. learoyd alone be without care for mulvaney dive darkly into the future and little ortheris fear the unknown what befall at that interview in the lonely pay shed by the side of the half build embankment only a few hundred cooly know and their tale be a confuse one run thus. 
we be at work. three men in red coat come. they saw the sahib dearsley sahib. they make oration. and noticeably the small man among the red coat. dearsley sahib also make oration and use many very strong word upon this talk they depart together to an open space and there the fat man in the red coat fight with dearsley sahib after the custom of white men with his hand make no noise and never at all pull dearsley sahib s hair. such of u a be not afraid behold these thing for just so long a time a a man need to cook the midday meal. the small man in the red coat have possess himself of dearsley sahib s watch. no he do not steal that watch. he hold it in his hand and at certain season make outcry and the twain cease their combat which be like the combat of young bull in spring. both men be soon all red but dearsley sahib be much more red than the other. see this and fear for his life because we greatly love him some fifty of u make shift to rush upon the red coat. but a certain man very black a to the hair and in no way to be confuse with the small man or the fat man who fight that man we affirm run upon u and of u he embrace some ten or fifty in both arm and beat our head together so that our liver turn to water and we run away. it be not good to interfere in the fighting of white men. after that dearsley sahib fell and do not rise these men jump upon his stomach and despoil him of all his money and attempt to fire the pay shed and depart. be it true that dearsley sahib make no complaint of these latter thing have be do. we be senseless with fear and do not at all remember. there be no palanquin near the pay shed. what do we know about palanquin. be it true that dearsley sahib doe not return to this place on account of his sickness for ten day. this be the fault of those bad men in the red coat who should be severely punish. for dearsley sahib be both our father and mother and we love him much. yet if dearsley sahib doe not return to this place at all we will speak the truth. there be a palanquin for the up keep of which we be force to pay nine tenth of our monthly wage. on such mulct dearsley sahib allow u to make obeisance to him before the palanquin. what could we do. we be poor men. he take a full half of our wage. will the government repay u those money. those three men in red coat bore the palanquin upon their shoulder and depart. all the money that dearsley sahib have take from u be in the cushion of that palanquin. therefore they steal it. thousand of rupee be there all our money. it be our bank box to fill which we cheerfully contribute to dearsley sahib three seventh of our monthly wage. why doe the white man look upon u with the eye of disfavor. before god there be a palanquin and now there be no palanquin. and if they send the police here to make inquisition we can only say that there never ha be any palanquin. why should a palanquin be near these work. we be poor men and we know nothing. 
such be the simple version of the simple story connect with the descent upon dearsley. from the lip of the cooly i receive it. dearsley himself be in no condition to say anything and mulvaney preserve a massive silence break only by the occasional lick of the lip. he have see a fight so gorgeous that even his power of speech be take from him. i respect that reserve until three day after the affair i discover in a disused stable in my quarter a palanquin of unchastened splendor evidently in past day the litter of a queen. the pole whereby it swing between the shoulder of the bearer be rich with the paint papier mach of cashmere. the shoulder pad be of yellow silk. the panel of the litter itself be ablaze with the love of all the god and goddess of the hindu pantheon lacquer on cedar. the cedar slide door be fit with hasp of translucent jaipur enamel and run in groove shoe with silver. the cushion be of brocade delhi silk and the curtain which once hide any glimpse of the beauty of the king s palace be stiff with gold. close investigation show that the entire fabric be everywhere rub and discolor by time and wear. but even thus it be sufficiently gorgeous to deserve house on the threshold of a royal zenana. i find no fault with it except that it be in my stable. then try to lift it by the silver shoe shoulder pole i laugh. the road from dearsley s pay shed to the cantonment be a narrow and uneven one and traverse by three very inexperienced palanquin bearer one of whom be sorely batter about the head must have be a path of torment. still i do not quite recognize the right of the three musketeer to turn me into a fence for steal property. 
i m askin you to warehouse ut say mulvaney when he be bring to consider the question. there s no steal in ut. dearsley tould u we cud have ut if we fight. jock fight an oh sorr when the throuble be at ut fine an jock be bleedin like a stick pig an little orth ri be shquealin on one leg chewin big bite out av dearsley s watch i wud ha give my place at the fight to have have you see wan round. he tuk jock a i suspicioned he would an jock be deceptive. nine roun s they be even match an at the tenth about that palanquin now there s not the least throuble in the world or we wud not ha bring ut here. you will ondherstand that the queen god bless her. doe not reckon for a privit soldier to kape elephints an palanquin an sich in barricks. afther we have dhragged ut down from dearsley s through that cruel scrub that near break orth ri s heart we set ut in the ravine for a night. an a thief av a porcupine an a civet cat av a jackal roost in ut a well we know in the mornin. i put ut to you sorr be an elegint palanquin fit for the princess the natural abidin place av all the vermin in cantonmints. we bring ut to you afther dhark and put ut in your shtable. do not let your conscience prick. think av the rejoicin men in the pay shed yonder lookin at dearsley wid his head tie up in a towel an well knowin that they can dhraw their pay ivry month widout stoppage for riffle. indirectly sorr you have rescue from an onprincipled son av a night hawk the peasanthry av a numerous village. an besides will i let that sedan chair rot on our hand. not i. ti not every day a piece av pure joolry come into the market. there s not a king widin these forty mile he wave his hand round the dusty horizon not a king wud not be glad to buy ut. some day meself whin i have leisure i ll take ut up along the road an dishpose av ut. 
how. say i for i know the man be capable of anything. 
get into ut av coorse and keep wan eye open through the curtain. whin i see a likely man av the native persuasion i will descind blushin from my canopy and say buy a palanquin ye black scutt. i will have to hire four men to carry me first though. and that s impossible till next pay day. 
curiously enough learoyd who have fight for the prize and in the win secure the high pleasure life have to offer him be altogether dispose to undervalue it while ortheris openly say it would be good to break the thing up. dearsley he argue might be a many side man capable despite his magnificent fight quality of set in motion the machinery of the civil law a thing much abhor by the soldier. under any circumstance their fun have come and pass. the next pay day be close at hand when there would be beer for all. wherefore long conserve the paint palanquin. 
a first class rifle shoot an a good little man av your inch you be say mulvaney. but you niver have a head worth a soft boil egg. ti me ha to lie awake av night schamin an plottin for the three av u. orth ri me son ti no matther av a few gallon av beer no nor twenty gallon but tub an vat an firkin in that sedan chair. who ut be an what ut be an how ut get there we do not know. but i know in my bone that you an me an jock wid his sprain thumb will get a fortune thereby. lave me alone an let me think. 
meantime the palanquin stay in my stall the key of which be in mulvaney s hand. 
pay day come and with it beer. it be not in experience to hope that mulvaney dry by four week drought would avoid excess. next morning he and the palanquin have disappear. he have take the precaution of get three day leave to see a friend on the railway and the colonel well know that the seasonal outburst be near and hop it would spend it force beyond the limit of his jurisdiction cheerfully give him all he demand. at this point mulvaney s history a record in the mess room stop. 
ortheris carry it not much further. no e wasn t drink say the little man loyally the liquor be no more than feelin it way round inside of im. but e go an fill that ole bloomin palanquin with bottle fore e go off. e s go an ired six men to carry im an i ad to elp im into be nupshal couch cause e wouldn t ear reason. e s go off in be shirt an trousies swearin tremenjus go down the road in the palanquin wavin be leg out o windy. 
yes say i but where. 
now you arx me a question. e say e be goin to sell that palanquin but from observation what happen when i be stuffin im through the door i fancy e s go to the new embankment to mock at dearsley. soon a jock s off duty i m goin there to see if e s safe not mulvaney but t other man. my saint but i pity im a elps terence out o the palanquin when e s once fair drink. 
he ll come back without harm i say. 
corse e will. on y question be what ll e be doin on the road. kill dearsley like a not. e shouldn t a go without jock or me. 
reinforce by learoyd ortheris seek the foreman of the coolie gang. dearsley s head be still embellish with towel. mulvaney drink or sober would have strike no man in that condition and dearsley indignantly deny that he would have take advantage of the intoxicate brave. 
i have my pick o you two he explain to learoyd and you get my palanquin not before i d make my profit on it. why d i do harm when everything s settle. your man do come here drink a davy s sow on a frosty night come a purpose to mock me stick his head out of the door an call me a crucify hodman. i make him drunk an send him along. but i never touch him. 
to these thing learoyd slow to perceive the evidence of sincerity answer only if owt come to mulvaaney long o you i ll gripple you clout or no clout on your ugly head an i ll draw t throat twistyways man. see there now. 
the embassy remove itself and dearsley the batter laugh alone over his supper that even. 
three day pass a fourth and a fifth. the week draw to a close and mulvaney do not return. he his royal palanquin and his six attendant have vanish into air. a very large and very tipsy soldier his foot stick out of the litter of a reign princess be not a thing to travel along the way without comment. yet no man of all the country round have see any such wonder. he be and he be not. and learoyd suggest the immediate smashment of dearsley a a sacrifice to his ghost. ortheris insist that all be well and in the light of past experience his hope seem reasonable. 
when mulvaney go up the road say he e s like to go a very long way up specially when e s so blue drink a e be now. but what git me be be not bein eard of pullin wool off the nigger somewhere about. that don t look good. the drink must ha die out in im by this unless e s break a bank an then why don t e come back. e didn t ought to ha go off without u. 
even ortheris s heart sink at the end of the seventh day for half the regiment be out scour the countryside and learoyd have be force to fight two men who hint openly that mulvaney have desert. to do him justice the colonel laugh at the notion even when it be put forward by his much trust adjutant. 
mulvaney would a soon think of desert a you would say he. no. he s either fall into a mischief among the villager and yet that isn t likely for he d blarney himself out of the pit. or else he be engage on urgent private affair some stupendous devilment that we shall hear of at mess after it ha be the round of the barrack room. the bad of it be that i shall have to give him twenty eight day confinement at least for be absent without leave just when i most want him to lick the new batch of recruit into shape. i never know a man who could put a polish on young soldier a quickly a mulvaney can. how doe he do it. 
with blarney and the buckle end of a belt sir say the adjutant. he be worth a couple of non commission officer when we be deal with an irish draft and the london lad seem to adore him. the bad of it be that if he go to the cell the other two be neither to hold nor to bind till he come out again. i believe ortheris preach mutiny on those occasion and i know that the mere presence of learoyd mourn for mulvaney kill all the cheerfulness of his room the sergeant tell me that he allow no man to laugh when he feel unhappy. they be a queer gang. 
for all that i wish we have a few more of them. i like a well conduct regiment but these pasty face shifty eye mealy mouth young sloucher from the dept worry me sometimes with their offensive virtue. they don t seem to have backbone enough to do anything but play card and prowl round the marry quarter. i believe i d forgive that old villain on the spot if he turn up with any sort of explanation that i could in decency accept. 
not likely to be much difficulty about that sir say the adjutant. mulvaney s explanation be only one degree le wonderful than his performance. they say that when he be in the black tyrone before he come to u he be discover on the bank of the liffey try to sell his colonel s charger to a donegal dealer a a perfect lady s hack. shackbolt command the tyrone then. 
shackbolt must have have apoplexy at the think of his ramp war horse answer to that description. he use to buy unbacked devil and tame them on some pet theory of starvation. what do mulvaney say. 
that he be a member of the society for the prevention of cruelty to animal anxious to sell the poor baste where he would get something to fill out his dimple. shackbolt laugh but i fancy that be why mulvaney exchange to ours. 
i wish he be back say the colonel. for i like him and believe he like me. 
that even to cheer our soul learoyd ortheris and i go into the waste to smoke out a porcupine. all the dog attend but even their clamor and they begin to discus the shortcoming of porcupine before they leave cantonment could not take u out of ourselves. a large low moon turn the top of the plume grass to silver and the stunt camel thorn bush and sour tamarisk into the likeness of troop devil. the smell of the sun have not leave the earth and little aimless wind blow across the rise garden to the southward bring the scent of dry rose and water. our fire once start and the dog craftily dispose to wait the dash of the porcupine we climb to the top of a rain scar hillock of earth and look across the scrub seam with cattle path white with the long grass and dot with spot of level pond bottom where the snipe would gather in winter. 
this say ortheris with a sigh a he take in the unkempt desolation of it all this be sanguinary. this be unusually sanguinary. sort o mad country. like a grate when the fire s put out by the sun. he shade his eye against the moonlight. an there s a loony dancin in the middle of it all. quite right. i d dance too if i wasn t so downheart. 
there prance a portent in the face of the moon a huge and rag spirit of the waste that flap it wing from afar. it have rise out of the earth. it be come toward u and it outline be never twice the same. the toga table cloth or dress gown whatever the creature wear take a hundred shape. once it stop on a neighbor mound and fling all it leg and arm to the wind. 
my but that scarecrow a get em bad. say ortheris. seem like if e come any furder we ll ave to argify with im. 
learoyd raise himself from the dirt a a bull clear his flank of the wallow. and a a bull bellow so he after a short minute at gaze give tongue to the star. 
mulvaaney. mulvaaney. a hoo. 
oh then it be that we yell and the figure dip into the hollow till with a crash of rend grass the lose one stride up to the light of the fire and disappear to the waist in a wave of joyous dog. then learoyd and ortheris give greet bass and falsetto together both swallow a lump in the throat. 
you damn fool. say they and severally pound him with their fist. 
go easy. he answer. wrap a huge arm around each. i would have you to know that i be a god to be treat a such tho by my faith i fancy i ve get to go to the guardroom just like a privit soldier. 
the latter part of the sentence destroy the suspicion raise by the former. any one would have be justify in regard mulvaney a mad. he be hatless and shoeless and his shirt and trouser be drop off him. but he wear one wondrous garment a gigantic cloak that fell from collar bone to heel of pale pink silk work all over in cunning needlework of hand long since dead with the love of the hindu god. the monstrous figure leap in and out of the light of the fire a he settle the fold round him. 
ortheris handle the stuff respectfully for a moment while i be try to remember where i have see it before. then he scream what ave you do with the palanquin. you re wearin the linin. 
i be say the irishman an by the same token the broidery be scrapin my hide off. i ve live in this sumpshus counterpane for four day. me son i begin to ondherstand why the naygur be no use widout me boot an me trousies like an openwork stock on a gyurl s leg at a dance i begin to feel like a naygur man all fearful an timoreous. give me a pipe an i ll tell on. 
he light a pipe resume his grip of his two friend and rock to and fro in a gale of laughter. 
mulvaney say ortheris sternly tain t no time for laughin. you ve give jock an me more trouble than you re worth. you ave be absent without leave an you ll go into cell for that. an you ave come back disgustin ly dress an most improper in the linin o that bloomin palanquin instid of which you laugh. an we think you be dead all the time. 
bhoys say the culprit still shake gently whin i ve do my tale you may cry if you like an little orth ri here can thrample my inside out. ha do an listen. my performinces have be stupenjus. my luck ha be the bless luck av the british army an there s no betther than that. i go out dhrunk an dhrinkin in the palanquin and i have come back a pink god. do any of you go to dearsley afther my time be up. he be at the bottom of ut all. 
ah say so murmur learoyd. tomorrow ah ll smash t face in upon his heead. 
ye will not. dearsley s a jool av a man. afther ortheris have put me into the palanquin an the six bearer men be gruntin down the road i tuk think to mock dearsley for that fight. so i tould thim go to the embankmint and there bein most amazin full i shtuck my head out av the concern an pass compliment wid dearsley. i must ha miscall him outrageous for whin i be that way the power av the tongue come on me. i can bare remimber tellin him that his mouth open endways like the mouth av a skate which be thrue afther learoyd have handle ut. an i clear remimber his takin no manner nor matter av offence but givin me a big dhrink of beer. twas the beer do the thrick for i crawl back into the palanquin steppin on me right ear wid me leave foot an thin sleep like the dead. wanst i half rouse an begad the noise in my head be tremenjus roarin and rattlin an poundin such a be quite new to me. mother av mercy think i phwat a concertina i will have on my shoulder whin i wake. an wid that i curl mysilf up to sleep before ut should get hould on me. bhoys that noise be not dhrink twas the rattle av a thrain. 
there follow an impressive pause. 
yes he have put me on a thrain put me palanquin an all an six black assassin av his own cooly that be in his nefarious confidence on the flat av a ballast thruck and we be rowlin an bowlin along to benares. glory be that i do not wake up thin an introjuce mysilf to the cooly. a i be sayin i sleep for the betther part av a day an a night. but remimber you that that man dearsley have pack me off on wan av his material thrains to benares all for to make me overstay my leave an get me into the cell. 
the explanation be an eminently rational one. benares lay at least ten hour by rail from the cantonment and nothing in the world could have save mulvaney from arrest a a deserter have he appear there in the apparel of his orgy. dearsley have not forget to take revenge. learoyd draw back a little begin to place soft blow over select portion of mulvaney s body. his thought be away on the embankment and they meditate evil for dearsley. mulvaney continue. 
whin i be full awake the palanquin be set down in a street i suspicioned for i cud hear people passin an talkin. but i know well i be far from home. there be a queer smell upon our cantonment a smell av dry earth and brick kiln wid whiff av cavalry stable litter. this place smelt marigold flower an bad water an wanst somethin alive come an blow heavy with his muzzle at the chink av the shutter. it s in a village i be think i to myself an the parochial buffalo be investigatin the palanquin. but anyways i have no desire to move. only lie still whin you re in foreign part an the standin luck av the british army will carry ye through. that be an epigram. i make ut. 
thin a lot av whishperin divils surround the palanquin. take ut up sez wan man. but who ll pay u. sez another. the maharanee s minister av coorse sez the man. oho. sez i to mysilf i m a quane in me own right wid a minister to pay me expense. i ll be an emperor if i lie still long enough. but this be no village i ve find. i lay quiet but i gum me right eye to a crack av the shutter an i saw that the whole street be cram wid palanquin an horse an a sprinklin av naked priest all yellow powder an tiger tail. but i may tell you orth ri an you learoyd that av all the palanquin ours be the most imperial an magnificent now a palanquin mean a native lady all the world over except whin a soldier av the quane happen to be takin a ride. woman an priest. sez i. your father s son be in the right pew this time terence. there will be proceedin s. six black divils in pink muslin tuk up the palanquin an oh. but the rowlin an the rockin make me sick. thin we get fair jam among the palanquin not more than fifty av them an we grate an bump like queenstown potato smack in a runnin tide. i cud hear the woman gigglin and squirkin in their palanquin but mine be the royal equipage. they make way for ut an begad the pink muslin men o mine be howlin room for the maharanee av gokral seetarun. do you know aught av the lady sorr. 
yes say i she be a very estimable old queen of the central indian state and they say she be fat. how on earth could she go to benares without all the city know her palanquin. 
twas the eternal foolishness av the naygur man. they saw the palanquin lie loneful an forlornsome an the beauty av ut after dearsley s men have dhropped ut and go away an they give ut the best name that occur to thim. quite right too. for aught we know the ould lady be travelin incog like me. i m glad to hear she s fat. i be no light weight mysilf an my men be mortial anxious to dhrop me under a great big archway promiscuously ornament wid the most improper carvin s an cuttin s i iv saw. begad. they make me blush like a like a maharanee. 
the temple of prithi devi i murmur remember the monstrous horror of that sculpture archway at benares. 
pretty devilskins savin your presence sorr. there be nothin pretty about ut except me. twas all half dhark an whin the cooly leave they shut a big black gate behind av u an half a company av fat yellow priest begin pully haulin the palanquin into a dharker place yet a big stone hall full av pillar an god an incense an all manner av similar thruck. the gate disconcert me for i perceive i wud have to go forward to get out my retreat bein cut off. by the same token a good priest make a bad palanquin coolie. begad. they nearly turn me inside out draggin the palanquin to the temple. now the disposishin av the force inside be this way. the maharanee av gokral seetarun that be me lay by the favor av providence on the far leave flank behind the dhark av a pillar carve with elephints head the remainder av the palanquin be in a big half circle face in to the big fat an most amazin she god that iv i dream av. her head run up into the black above u an her foot stick out in the light av a little fire av melt butter that a priest be feedin out av a butter dish. thin a man begin to sing an play on somethin back in the dhark an twas a queer song. ut make my hair lift on the back av my neck thin the door av all the palanquin slide back an the woman bundle out i saw what i ll niver see again. twas more glorious than transformation at a pantomime for they be in pink an blue an silver an red an grass green wid di monds an im ralds an great red ruby all over thim. but that be the least part av the glory. o bhoys they be more lovely than the like av any loveliness in hiven. ay their little bare foot be good than the white hand av a lord s lady an their mouth be like pucker rose an their eye be big an dharker than the eye av any livin woman i ve see. ye may laugh but i m speakin truth. i niver saw the like an niver i will again. 
see that in all probability you be watch the wife and daughter of most of the king of india the chance be that you win t i say for it be dawn on me that mulvaney have stumble upon a big queen pray at benares. 
i niver will he say mournfully. that sight doesn t come twist to any man. it make me ashamed to watch. a fat priest knock at my door. i didn t think he d have the insolince to disturb the maharanee av gokral seetarun so i lay still. the old cow s asleep sez he to another. let her be sez that. twill be long before she ha a calf. i might ha know before he speak that all a woman pray for in injia an for matter o that in england too be childher. that make me more sorry i d come me bein a you well know a childless man. 
he be silent for a moment think of his little son dead many year ago. 
they pray an the butter fire blaze up an the incense turn everything blue an between that an the fire the woman look a tho they be all ablaze an twinklin. they take hold av the she god s knee they cry out an they throw themselves about an that world without end amen music be dhrivin thim mad. mother av hiven. how they cry an the ould she god grinnin above thim all so scornful. the dhrink be dyin out in me fast an i be thinkin hard than the thought wud go through my head thinkin how to get out an all manner of nonsense a well. the woman be rockin in row their di mond belt clickin an the tear runnin out betune their hand an the light be goin low an dharker. thin there be a blaze like lightnin from the roof an that show me the inside av the palanquin an at the end where my foot be stand the livin spit an image o mysilf work on the linin. this man here ut be. 
he hunt in the fold of his pink cloak run a hand under one and thrust into the firelight a foot long embroider presentment of the great god krishna play on a flute. the heavy jowl the star eye and the blue black moustache of the god make up a far off resemblance to mulvaney. 
the blaze be go in a wink but the whole schame come to me thin i believe i be mad too. i slide the off shutter open an rowled out into the dhark behind the elephint head pillar tuck up my trousies to my knee slip off my boot an tuk a general hould av all the pink linin av the palanquin. glory be ut rip out like a woman s dhriss whin you tread on ut at a sergeant ball an a bottle come with ut. i tuk the bottle an the next minut i be out av the dhark av the pillar the pink linin wrap round me most graceful the music thunderin like kettledrum an a could draft blowin round my bare leg. by this hand that do ut i be khrishna tootlin on the flute the god that the rig mental chaplain talk about. a sweet sight i must ha look. i know my eye be big and my face be wax white an at the bad i must ha look like a ghost. but they take me for the livin god. the music stop and the woman be dead dumb an i crook my leg like a shepherd on a china basin an i do the ghost waggle with my foot a i have do ut at the rig mental theatre many time an i slide acrost the width av that temple in front av the she god tootlin on the beer bottle. 
wot do you toot. demand ortheris the practical. 
me. oh. mulvaney spring up suit the action to the word and slide gravely in front of u a dilapidate but impose deity in the half light. i sing. 
only say you ll be mr. brallaghan. don t say nay charmin judy callaghan. 
i didn t know me own voice when i sing. an oh. twas pitiful to see the woman. the darlin s be down on their face. whin i pass the last wan i cud see her poor little finger workin one in another a if she want to touch my foot. so i dhrew the tail av this pink overcoat over her head for the great honor an i slide into the dhark on the other side av the temple and fetch up in the arm av a big fat priest. all i want be to get away clear. so i tak him by his greasy throat an shut the speech out av him out. sez i. which way ye fat heathen. oh. sez he. man sez i. white man soldier man common soldier man. where in the name av confusion be the back door. the woman in the temple be still on their face an a young priest be holdin out his arm above their head. 
this way sez my fat friend duckin behind a big bull god an divin into a passage thin i remimbered that i must ha make the miraculous reputation av that temple for the next fifty year. not so fast i sez an i hold out both my hand wid a wink. that ould thief smile like a father. i tuk him by the back av the neck in case he should be wishful to put a knife into me unbeknownst an i run him up an down the passage twice to collect his sensibility. be quiet sez he in english. now you talk sense i sez. fwhat ll you give me for the use av that most iligant palanquin i have no time to take away. don t tell sez he be ut like. sez i but ye might give me my railway fare. i m far from my home an i ve do you a service. bhoys ti a good thing to be a priest. the ould man niver throubled himself to dhraw from a bank. a i will prove to you subsequint he philander all round the slack av his clothe an begin dribblin ten rupee note old gold mohurs and rupee into my hand till i could hould no more. 
you lie. say ortheris. you re mad or sunstrook. a native don t give coin unless you cut it out o im. tain t nature. 
then my lie an my sunstroke be conceal under that lump av sod yonder retort mulvaney unruffled nod across the scrub. an there s a dale more in nature than your squidgy little leg have iv take you to orth ri me son. four hundred an thirty four rupee by my reckon an a big fat gold necklace that i take from him a a remimbrancer be our share in that business. 
an e give it you for love. say ortheris. 
we be alone in that passage. maybe i be a trifle too pressin but considher fwhat i have do for the good av the temple and the iverlastin joy av those woman. twas cheap at the price. i wud ha take more if i cud ha find ut. i turn the ould man upside down at the last but he be milk dhry. thin he open a door in another passage an i find mysilf up to my knee in benares river water an bad smellin ut be. more by token i have come out on the river line close to the burnin ghat and contagious to a cracklin corpse. this be in the heart av the night for i have be four hour in the temple. there be a crowd av boat tie up so i tuk wan an wint across the river thin i come home acrost country lyin up by day. 
how on earth do you manage. i say. 
how do sir frederick robert get from cabul to candahar. he march an he niver tould how near he be to breakin down. that s why he be fwhat he be. an now mulvaney yawn portentously now i will go an give myself up for absince widout leave. it s eight an twenty day an the rough end of the colonel s tongue in orderly room any way you look at ut. but ti cheap at the price. 
mulvaney say i softly. if there happen to be any sort of excuse that the colonel can in any way accept i have a notion that you ll get nothing more than the dress down the new recruit be in and. 
not a word more sorr. be ut excuse the old man want. ti not my way but he shall have thim. i ll tell him i be engage in financial operation connect wid a church and he flap his way to cantonment and the cell sing lustily. 
so they send a corp ril s file and they put me in the gyard room for conduck unbecomin of a soldier. 
and when he be lose in the midst of the moonlight we could hear the refrain. 
bang upon the big drum bash upon the cymbal a we go marchin along boy oh. for although in this campaign there s no whisky nor champagne we ll keep our spirit goin with a song boy. 
therewith he surrender himself to the joyful and almost weep guard and be make much of by his fellow. but to the colonel he say that he have be smite with sunstroke and have lie insensible on a villager s cot for untold hour. and between laughter and good will the affair be smooth over so that he could next day teach the new recruit how to fear god honor the queen shoot straight and keep clean. 
his majesty the king. 
where the word of a king be there be power. and who may say unto him what doest thou. 
yeth. and chimo to sleep at ve foot of ve bed and ve pink pikky book and ve bwead cause i will be hungwy in ve night and vat s all miss biddums. and now give me one kiss and i ll go to sleep. so. kite quiet. ow. ve pink pikky book ha slidded under ve pillow and ve bwead be cwumbling. miss biddums. miss bid_dums. i m so uncomfy. come and tuck me up miss biddums. 
his majesty the king be go to bed. and poor patient miss biddums who have advertise herself humbly a a young person european accustom to the care of little child be force to wait upon his royal caprice. the go to bed be always a lengthy process because his majesty have a convenient knack of forget which of his many friend from the mehter s son to the commissioner s daughter he have pray for and l the deity should take offence be use to toil through his little prayer in all reverence five time in one even. his majesty the king believe in the efficacy of prayer a devoutly a he believe in chimo the patient spaniel or miss biddums who could reach him down his gun with cursuffun cap reel one from the upper shelf of the big nursery cupboard. 
at the door of the nursery his authority stop. beyond lay the empire of his father and mother two very terrible people who have no time to waste upon his majesty the king. his voice be lower when he pass the frontier of his own dominion his action be fetter and his soul be fill with awe because of the grim man who live among a wilderness of pigeon hole and the most fascinate piece of red tape and the wonderful woman who be always get into or step out of the big carriage. 
to the one belong the mystery of the _duftar room. to the other the great reflect wilderness of the memsahib s room where the shiny scent dress hang on peg mile and mile up in the air and the just see plateau of the toilet table reveal an acreage of speckly comb broider hanafitch bag and white head brush. 
there be no room for his majesty the king either in official reserve or mundane gorgeousness. he have discover that age and age ago before even chimo come to the house or miss biddums have cease grizzle over a packet of greasy letter which appear to be her chief treasure on earth. his majesty the king therefore wisely confine himself to his own territory where only miss biddums and she feebly dispute his sway. 
from miss biddums he have pick up his simple theology and weld it to the legend of god and devil that he have learn in the servant quarter. 
to miss biddums he confide with equal trust his tattered garment and his more serious grief. she would make everything whole. she know exactly how the earth have be bear and have reassure the tremble soul of his majesty the king that terrible time in july when it rain continuously for seven day and seven night and there be no ark ready and all the raven have fly away. she be the most powerful person with whom he be bring into contact always except the two remote and silent people beyond the nursery door. 
how be his majesty the king to know that six year ago in the summer of his birth mr. austell turn over her husband s paper have come upon the intemperate letter of a foolish woman who have be carry away by the silent man s strength and personal beauty. how could he tell what evil the overlook slip of note paper have work in the mind of a desperately jealous wife. how could he despite his wisdom guess that his mother have choose to make of it excuse for a bar and a division between herself and her husband that strengthen and grow hard to break with each year. that she have unearth this skeleton in the cupboard have train it into a household god which should be about their path and about their bed and poison all their way. 
these thing be beyond the province of his majesty the king. he only know that his father be daily absorb in some mysterious work for a thing call the sirkar and that his mother be the victim alternately of the nautch and the burrakhana. to these entertainment she be escort by a captain man for whom his majesty the king have no regard. 
he doesn t laugh he argue with miss biddums who would fain have teach him charity. he only make face wiv his mouf and when he want to o muse me i be not o muse. and his majesty the king shake his head a one who know the deceitfulness of this world. 
morning and even it be his duty to salute his father and mother the former with a grave shake of the hand and the latter with an equally grave kiss. once indeed he have put his arm round his mother s neck in the fashion he use toward miss biddums. the openwork of his sleeve edge catch in an earring and the last stage of his majesty s little overture be a suppress scream and summary dismissal to the nursery. 
it s w ong think his majesty the king to hug memsahib wiv fings in veir ear. i will amember. he never repeat the experiment. 
miss biddums it must be confess spoil him a much a his nature admit in some sort of recompense for what she call the hard way of his papa and mamma. she like her charge know nothing of the trouble between man and wife the savage contempt for a woman s stupidity on the one side or the dull rankle anger on the other. miss biddums have look after many little child in her time and serve in many establishment. be a discreet woman she observe little and say le and when her pupil go over the sea to the great unknown which she with touch confidence in her hearer call home pack up her slender belonging and seek for employment afresh lavish all her love on each successive batch of ingrate. only his majesty the king have repay her affection with interest. and in his uncomprehending ear she have tell the tale of nearly all her hope her aspiration the hope that be dead and the dazzle glory of her ancestral home in _cal_cutta close to wellington square. 
everything above the average be in the eye of his majesty the king calcutta good. when miss biddums have cross his royal will he reverse the epithet to vex that estimable lady and all thing evil be until the tear of repentance sweep away spite calcutta bad. 
now and again miss biddums beg for him the rare pleasure of a day in the society of the commissioner s child the wilful four year old patsie who to the intense amazement of his majesty the king be idolize by her parent. on think the question out at length by road unknown to those who have leave childhood behind he come to the conclusion that patsie be pet because she wear a big blue sash and yellow hair. 
this precious discovery he keep to himself. the yellow hair be absolutely beyond his power his own tousle wig be potato brown. but something might be do toward the blue sash. he tie a large knot in his mosquito curtain in order to remember to consult patsie on their next meet. she be the only child he have ever speak to and almost the only one that he have ever see. the little memory and the very large and rag knot hold good. 
patsie lend me your blue wiband say his majesty the king. 
you ll bewy it say patsie doubtfully mindful of certain fearful atrocity commit on her doll. 
no i win t twoofanhonor. it s for me to wear. 
pooh. say patsie. boy don t wear sa ash. zey s only for dirls. 
i didn t know. the face of his majesty the king fell. 
who want riband. be you play horse chickabiddies. say the commissioner s wife step into the veranda. 
toby want my sash explain patsie. 
i don t now say his majesty the king hastily feel that with one of these terrible grow up his poor little secret would be shamelessly wrench from him and perhaps most burn desecration of all laugh at. 
i ll give you a cracker cap say the commissioner s wife. come along with me toby and we ll choose it. 
the cracker cap be a stiff three point vermilion and tinsel splendor. his majesty the king fit it on his royal brow. the commissioner s wife have a face that child instinctively trust and her action a she adjust the topple middle spike be tender. 
will it do a well. stammer his majesty the king. 
a what little one. 
a ve wiban. 
oh quite. go and look at yourself in the glass. 
the word be speak in all sincerity and to help forward any absurd dress up amusement that the child might take into their mind. but the young savage ha a keen sense of the ludicrous. his majesty the king swing the great cheval glass down and saw his head crown with the star horror of a fool s cap a thing which his father would rend to piece if it ever come into his office. he pluck it off and burst into tear. 
toby say the commissioner s wife gravely you shouldn t give way to temper. i be very sorry to see it. it s wrong. 
his majesty the king sob inconsolably and the heart of patsie s mother be touch. she draw the child on to her knee. clearly it be not temper alone. 
what be it toby. win t you tell me. aren t you well. 
the torrent of sob and speech meet and fight for a time with choking and gulping and gasp. then in a sudden rush his majesty the king be deliver of a few inarticulate sound follow by the word. go a way you dirty little debbil. 
toby. what do you mean. 
it s what he d say. i know it be. he say vat when vere be only a little little eggy mess on my t t unic. and he d say it again and laugh if i go in wif vat on my head. 
who would say that. 
m m my papa. and i fight if i have ve blue wiban he d let me play in ve waste paper basket under ve table. 
_what blue riband childie. 
ve same vat patsie have ve big blue wiban w w wind my t ttummy. 
what be it toby. there s something on your mind. tell me all about it and perhaps i can help. 
isn t anyfing sniff his majesty mindful of his manhood and raise his head from the motherly bosom upon which it be rest. i only fight vat you you pet patsie cause she have ve blue wiban and and if i d have ve blue wiban too m my papa w would pet me. 
the secret be out and his majesty the king sob bitterly in spite of the arm round him and the murmur of comfort on his heat little forehead. 
enter patsie tumultuously embarrass by several length of the commissioner s pet mahseer rod. tum along toby. zere s a chu chu lizard in ze chick_ and i ve tell chimo to watch him till we turn. if we poke him wiz zis his tail will go wiggle wiggle and fall off. tum along. i can t weach. 
i m comin say his majesty the king climb down from the commissioner s wife s knee after a hasty kiss. 
two minute late the chu chu lizard s tail be wriggle on the mat of the veranda and the child be gravely poke it with splinter from the chick_ to urge it exhaust vitality into just one wiggle more cause it doesn t hurt chu chu. 
the commissioner s wife stand in the doorway and watch. poor little mite. a blue sash. and my own precious patsie. i wonder if the best of u or we who love them best ever understand what go on in their topsy turvy little head. 
a big tear splash on the commissioner s wife s wed ring and she go indoors to devise a tea for the benefit of his majesty the king. 
their soul aren t in their tummy at that age in this climate say the commissioner s wife but they be not far off. i wonder if i could make mr. austell understand. poor little fellow. 
with simple craft the commissioner s wife call on mr. austell and speak long and lovingly about child. inquire specially for his majesty the king. 
he s with his govern say mr. austell and the tone intimate that she be not interest. 
the commissioner s wife unskilled in the art of war continue her questioning. i don t know say mr. austell. these thing be leave to miss biddums and of course she doe not ill treat the child. 
the commissioner s wife leave hastily. the last sentence jar upon her nerve. doesn t ill treat the child. a if that be all. i wonder what tom would say if i only didn t ill treat patsie. 
thenceforward his majesty the king be an honor guest at the commissioner s house and the choose friend of patsie with whom he blunder into a many scrape a the compound and the servant quarter afford. patsie s mamma be always ready to give counsel help and sympathy and if need be and caller few to enter into their game with an abandon that would have shock the sleek haired subaltern who squirm painfully in their chair when they come to call on her whom they profanely nickname mother bunch. 
yet in spite of patsie and patsie s mamma and the love that these two lavish upon him his majesty the king fell grievously from grace and commit no le a sin than that of theft unknown it be true but burdensome. 
there come a man to the door one day when his majesty be play in the hall and the bearer have go to dinner with a packet for his majesty s mamma. and he put it upon the hall table say that there be no answer and depart. 
presently the pattern of the dado cease to interest his majesty while the packet a white neatly wrap one of fascinate shape interest him very much indeed. his mamma be out so be miss biddums and there be pink string round the packet. he greatly desire pink string. it would help him in many of his little business the haulage across the floor of his small cane chair the torture of chimo who could never understand harness and so forth. if he take the string it would be his own and nobody would be any the wise. he certainly could not pluck up sufficient courage to ask mamma for it. wherefore mount upon a chair he carefully untie the string and behold the stiff white paper spread out in four direction and reveal a beautiful little leather box with gold line upon it. he try to replace the string but that be a failure. so he open the box to get full satisfaction for his iniquity and saw a most beautiful star that shine and wink and be altogether lovely and desirable. 
vat say his majesty meditatively be a parkle cwown like what i will wear when i go to heaven. i will wear it on my head miss biddums say so. i would like to wear it now. i would like to play wiv it. i will take it away and play wiv it very careful until mamma ask for it. i fink it be buy for me to play wiv same a my cart. 
his majesty the king be argue against his conscience and he know it for he think immediately after. never mind. i will keep it to play wiv until mamma say where be it and then i will say. i tookt it and i be sorry. i will not hurt it because it be a parkle cwown. but miss biddums will tell me to put it back. i will not show it to miss biddums. 
if mamma have come in at that moment all would have go well. she do not and his majesty the king stuff paper case and jewel into the breast of his blouse and march to the nursery. 
when mamma ask i will tell be the salve that he lay upon his conscience. but mamma never ask and for three whole day his majesty the king gloat over his treasure. it be of no earthly use to him but it be splendid and for aught he know something drop from the heaven themselves. still mamma make no inquiry and it seem to him in his furtive peep a though the shiny stone grow dim. what be the use of a parkle cwown if it make a little boy feel all bad in his inside. he have the pink string a well a the other treasure but greatly he wish that he have not go beyond the string. it be his first experience of iniquity and it pain him after the flush of possession and secret delight in the parkle cwown have die away. 
each day that he delay render confession to the people beyond the nursery door more impossible. now and again he determine to put himself in the path of the beautifully attire lady a she be go out and explain that he and no one else be the possessor of a parkle cwown most beautiful and quite uninquired for. but she pass hurriedly to her carriage and the opportunity be go before his majesty the king could draw the deep breath which clinch noble resolve. the dread secret cut him off from miss biddums patsie and the commissioner s wife and doubly hard fate when he brood over it patsie say and tell her mother that he be cross. 
the day be very long to his majesty the king and the night long still. miss biddums have inform him more than once what be the ultimate destiny of fief and when he pass the interminable mud flank of the central jail he shake in his little strap shoe. 
but release come after an afternoon spend in play boat by the edge of the tank at the bottom of the garden. his majesty the king go to tea and for the first time in his memory the meal revolt him. his nose be very cold and his cheek be burn hot. there be a weight about his foot and he press his head several time to make sure that it be not swell a he sit. 
i feel vevy funny say his majesty the king rub his nose. vere s a buzz buzz in my head. 
he go to bed quietly. miss biddums be out and the bearer undress him. 
the sin of the parkle cwown be forget in the acuteness of the discomfort to which he rouse after a leaden sleep of some hour he be thirsty and the bearer have forget to leave the drink water. miss biddums. miss biddums. i m so kirsty. 
no answer miss biddums have leave to attend the wed of a calcutta schoolmate. his majesty the king have forget that. 
i want a dwink of water. he cry but his voice be dry up in his throat. i want a dwink. vere be ve glass. 
he sit up in bed and look round. there be a murmur of voice from the other side of the nursery door. it be good to face the terrible unknown than to choke in the dark. he slip out of bed but his foot be strangely wilful and he reel once or twice. then he push the door open and stagger a puff and purple face little figure into the brilliant light of the din room full of pretty lady. 
i m vevy hot. i m vevy uncomfitivle moan his majesty the king cling to the portire and vere s no water in ve glass and i m so kirsty. give me a dwink of water. 
an apparition in black and white his majesty the king could hardly see distinctly lift him up to the level of the table and felt his wrist and forehead. the water come and he drink deeply his teeth chatter against the edge of the tumbler. then every one seem to go away every one except the huge man in black and white who carry him back to his bed. the mother and father follow. and the sin of the parkle cwown rush back and take possession of the terrify soul. 
i m a fief. he gasp. i want to tell miss biddums vat i m a fief. vere be miss biddums. 
miss biddums have come and be bend over him. i m a fief he whisper. a fief like ve men in the pwison. but i ll tell now i tookt. i tookt ve parkle cwown when the man that come leave it in ve hall. i bwoke ve paper and ve little bwown box and it look shiny and i tookt it to play wif and i be afwaid. it s in ve dooly box at ve bottom. no one never ask for it but i be afwaid. oh go an get ve dooly box. 
miss biddums obediently stoop to the low shelf of the almirah and unearth the big paper box in which his majesty the king keep his dear possession. under the tin soldier and a layer of mud pellet for a pellet bow wink and blaze a diamond star wrap roughly in a half sheet of note paper whereon be a few word. 
somebody be cry at the head of the bed and a man s hand touch the forehead of his majesty the king who grasp the packet and spread it on the bed. 
vat be ve parkle cwown he say and weep bitterly. for now that he have make restitution he would fain have keep the shin splendor with him. 
it concern you too say a voice at the head of the bed. read the note. this be not the time to keep back anything. 
the note be curt very much to the point and sign by a single initial. _if you wear this to morrow night i shall know what to expect. the date be three week old. 
a whisper follow and the deep voice return. and you drift a far apart a that. i think it make u quit now doesn t it. oh can t we drop this folly once and for all. be it worth it darling. 
kiss me too say his majesty the king dreamily. you isn t vevy angwy be you. 
the fever burn itself out and his majesty the king sleep. 
when he wake it be in a new world people by his father and mother a well a miss biddums. and there be much love in that world and no morsel of fear and more pet than be good for several little boy. his majesty the king be too young to moralize on the uncertainty of thing human or he would have be impress with the singular advantage of crime ay black sin. behold he have steal the parkle cwown and his reward be love and the right to play in the waste paper basket under the table for always. 
* * * * *. 
he trot over to spend an afternoon with patsie and the commissioner s wife would have kiss him. no not vere say his majesty the king with superb insolence fence one corner of his mouth with his hand vat s my mamma s place vere she kiss me. 
oh. say the commissioner s wife briefly. then to herself. well i suppose i ought to be glad for his sake. child be selfish little grub and i ve get my patsie. 
the strange ride of morrowbie juke. 
alive or dead there be no other way. native proverb. 
there be a the conjurer say no deception about this tale. juke by accident stumble upon a village that be well know to exist though he be the only englishman who ha be there. a somewhat similar institution use to flourish on the outskirt of calcutta and there be a story that if you go into the heart of bikanir which be in the heart of the great indian desert you shall come across not a village but a town where the dead who do not die but may not live have establish their headquarter. and since it be perfectly true that in the same desert be a wonderful city where all the rich moneylender retreat after they have make their fortune. fortune so vast that the owner cannot trust even the strong hand of the government to protect them but take refuge in the waterless sand. and drive sumptuous c spring barouche and buy beautiful girl and decorate their palace with gold and ivory and minton tile and mother o pearl i do not see why juke s tale should not be true. he be a civil engineer with a head for plan and distance and thing of that kind and he certainly would not take the trouble to invent imaginary trap. he could earn more by do his legitimate work. he never vary the tale in the tell and grow very hot and indignant when he think of the disrespectful treatment he receive. he write this quite straightforwardly at first but he ha since touch it up in place and introduce moral reflection thus. 
in the begin it all arise from a slight attack of fever. my work necessitate my be in camp for some month between pakpattan and mubarakpur a desolate sandy stretch of country a every one who ha have the misfortune to go there may know. my cooly be neither more nor le exasperate than other gang and my work demand sufficient attention to keep me from mop have i be incline to so unmanly a weakness. 
on the d december i felt a little feverish. there be a full moon at the time and in consequence every dog near my tent be bay it. the brute assemble in two and three and drive me frantic. a few day previously i have shoot one loud mouth singer and suspend his carcass in terrorem about fifty yard from my tent door. but his friend fell upon fight for and ultimately devour the body. and a it seem to me sing their hymn of thanksgiving afterward with renew energy. 
the light headedness which accompany fever act differently on different men. my irritation give way after a short time to a fix determination to slaughter one huge black and white beast who have be foremost in song and first in flight throughout the even. thank to a shake hand and a giddy head i have already miss him twice with both barrel of my shotgun when it strike me that my best plan would be to ride him down in the open and finish him off with a hog spear. this of course be merely the semi delirious notion of a fever patient. but i remember that it strike me at the time a be eminently practical and feasible. 
i therefore order my groom to saddle pornic and bring him round quietly to the rear of my tent. when the pony be ready i stand at his head prepare to mount and dash out a soon a the dog should again lift up his voice. pornic by the way have not be out of his picket for a couple of day. the night air be crisp and chilly. and i be arm with a specially long and sharp pair of persuader with which i have be rouse a sluggish cob that afternoon. you will easily believe then that when he be let go he go quickly. in one moment for the brute bolt a straight a a die the tent be leave far behind and we be fly over the smooth sandy soil at race speed. in another we have pass the wretched dog and i have almost forget why it be that i have take horse and hog spear. 
the delirium of fever and the excitement of rapid motion through the air must have take away the remnant of my sens. i have a faint recollection of stand upright in my stirrup and of brandish my hog spear at the great white moon that look down so calmly on my mad gallop. and of shout challenge to the camel thorn bush a they whiz past. once or twice i believe i sway forward on pornic s neck and literally hang on by my spur a the mark next morning show. 
the wretched beast go forward like a thing possess over what seem to be a limitless expanse of moonlit sand. next i remember the grind rise suddenly in front of u and a we top the ascent i saw the water of the sutlej shin like a silver bar below. then pornic blunder heavily on his nose and we roll together down some unseen slope. 
i must have lose consciousness for when i recover i be lie on my stomach in a heap of soft white sand and the dawn be begin to break dimly over the edge of the slope down which i have fall. a the light grow strong i saw that i be at the bottom of a horseshoe shape crater of sand open on one side directly on to the shoal of the sutlej. my fever have altogether leave me and with the exception of a slight dizziness in the head i felt no bad effect from the fall over night. 
pornic who be stand a few yard away be naturally a good deal exhaust but have not hurt himself in the least. his saddle a favorite polo one be much knock about and have be twist under his belly. it take me some time to put him to right and in the meantime i have ample opportunity of observe the spot into which i have so foolishly drop. 
at the risk of be consider tedious i must describe it at length. inasmuch a an accurate mental picture of it peculiarity will be of material assistance in enable the reader to understand what follow. 
imagine then a i have say before a horseshoe shape crater of sand with steeply grade sand wall about thirty five foot high. the slope i fancy must have be about. this crater enclose a level piece of grind about fifty yard long by thirty at it broad part with a rude well in the centre. round the bottom of the crater about three foot from the level of the grind proper run a series of eighty three semi circular ovoid square and multilateral hole all about three foot at the mouth. each hole on inspection show that it be carefully shore internally with driftwood and bamboo and over the mouth a wooden drip board project like the peak of a jockey s cap for two foot. no sign of life be visible in these tunnel but a most sicken stench pervade the entire amphitheatre a stench foul than any which my wandering in indian village have introduce me to. 
have remount pornic who be a anxious a i to get back to camp i ride round the base of the horseshoe to find some place whence an exit would be practicable. the inhabitant whoever they might be have not think fit to put in an appearance so i be leave to my own device. my first attempt to rush pornic up the steep sand bank show me that i have fall into a trap exactly on the same model a that which the ant lion set for it prey. at each step the shift sand pour down from above in ton and rattle on the drip board of the hole like small shoot. a couple of ineffectual charge send u both roll down to the bottom half choke with the torrent of sand. and i be constrain to turn my attention to the river bank. 
here everything seem easy enough. the sand hill run down to the river edge it be true but there be plenty of shoal and shallow across which i could gallop pornic and find my way back to terra firma by turn sharply to the right or the leave. a i lead pornic over the sand i be startle by the faint pop of a rifle across the river. and at the same moment a bullet drop with a sharp _whit_ close to pornic s head. 
there be no mistake the nature of the missile a regulation martini henry picket. about five hundred yard away a country boat be anchor in midstream. and a jet of smoke drift away from it bow in the still morning air show me whence the delicate attention have come. be ever a respectable gentleman in such an impasse. the treacherous sand slope allow no escape from a spot which i have visit most involuntarily and a promenade on the river frontage be the signal for a bombardment from some insane native in a boat. i m afraid that i lose my temper very much indeed. 
another bullet remind me that i have good save my breath to cool my porridge. and i retreat hastily up the sand and back to the horseshoe where i saw that the noise of the rifle have draw sixty five human being from the badger hole which i have up till that point suppose to be untenanted. i find myself in the midst of a crowd of spectator about forty men twenty woman and one child who could not have be more than five year old. they be all scantily clothe in that salmon color cloth which one associate with hindu mendicant and at first sight give me the impression of a band of loathsome fakir. the filth and repulsiveness of the assembly be beyond all description and i shudder to think what their life in the badger hole must be. 
even in these day when local self government ha destroy the great part of a native s respect for a sahib i have be accustom to a certain amount of civility from my inferior and on approach the crowd naturally expect that there would be some recognition of my presence. a a matter of fact there be. but it be by no mean what i have look for. 
the rag crew actually laugh at me such laughter i hope i may never hear again. they cackle yell whistle and howl a i walk into their midst. some of them literally throw themselves down on the grind in convulsion of unholy mirth. in a moment i have let go pornic s head and irritate beyond expression at the morning s adventure commence cuff those near to me with all the force i could. the wretch drop under my blow like nine pin and the laughter give place to wail for mercy. while those yet untouched clasp me round the knee implore me in all sort of uncouth tongue to spare them. 
in the tumult and just when i be feel very much ashamed of myself for have thus easily give way to my temper a thin high voice murmur in english from behind my shoulder. sahib. sahib. do you not know me. sahib it be gunga das the telegraph master. 
i spin round quickly and face the speaker. 
gunga das. i have of course no hesitation in mention the man s real name. i have know four year before a a deccanee brahmin loan by the punjab government to one of the khalsia state. he be in charge of a branch telegraph office there and when i have last meet him be a jovial full stomach portly government servant with a marvelous capacity for make bad pun in english a peculiarity which make me remember him long after i have forget his service to me in his official capacity. it be seldom that a hindu make english pun. 
now however the man be change beyond all recognition. caste mark stomach slate color continuation and unctuous speech be all go. i look at a wither skeleton turbanless and almost naked with long mat hair and deep set codfish eye. but for a crescent shape scar on the leave cheek the result of an accident for which i be responsible i should never have know him. but it be indubitably gunga das and for this i be thankful an english speak native who might at least tell me the mean of all that i have go through that day. 
the crowd retreat to some distance a i turn toward the miserable figure and order him to show me some method of escape from the crater. he hold a freshly pluck crow in his hand and in reply to my question climb slowly on a platform of sand which run in front of the hole and commence light a fire there in silence. dry bent sand poppy and driftwood burn quickly. and i derive much consolation from the fact that he light them with an ordinary sulphur match. when they be in a bright glow and the crow be neatly spit in front thereof gunga das begin without a word of preamble. 
there be only two kind of men sar. the alive and the dead. when you be dead you be dead but when you be alive you live. here the crow demand his attention for an instant a it twirl before the fire in danger of be burn to a cinder. if you die at home and do not die when you come to the ght to be burn you come here. 
the nature of the reek village be make plain now and all that i have know or read of the grotesque and the horrible pal before the fact just communicate by the ex brahmin. sixteen year ago when i first land in bombay i have be tell by a wander armenian of the existence somewhere in india of a place to which such hindu a have the misfortune to recover from trance or catalepsy be convey and keep and i recollect laugh heartily at what i be then please to consider a traveler s tale. sit at the bottom of the sand trap the memory of watson s hotel with it swing punkah white rob attendant and the sallow face armenian rise up in my mind a vividly a a photograph and i burst into a loud fit of laughter. the contrast be too absurd. 
gunga das a he bend over the unclean bird watch me curiously. hindu seldom laugh and his surround be not such a to move gunga das to any undue excess of hilarity. he remove the crow solemnly from the wooden spit and a solemnly devour it. then he continue his story which i give in his own word. 
in epidemic of the cholera you be carry to be burn almost before you be dead. when you come to the riverside the cold air perhaps make you alive and then if you be only little alive mud be put on your nose and mouth and you die conclusively. if you be rather more alive more mud be put. but if you be too lively they let you go and take you away. i be too lively and make protestation with anger against the indignity that they endeavor to press upon me. in those day i be brahmin and proud man. now i be dead man and eat here he eye the well gnaw breast bone with the first sign of emotion that i have see in him since we meet crow and other thing. they take me from my sheet when they saw that i be too lively and give me medicine for one week and i survive successfully. then they send me by rail from my place to okara station with a man to take care of me. and at okara station we meet two other men and they conduct we three on camel in the night from okara station to this place and they propel me from the top to the bottom and the other two succeed and i have be here ever since two and a half year. once i be brahmin and proud man and now i eat crow. 
there be no way of get out. 
none of what kind at all. when i first come i make experiment frequently and all the others also but we have always succumb to the sand which be precipitate upon our head. 
but surely i break in at this point the river front be open and it be worth while dodge the bullet. while at night. 
i have already mature a rough plan of escape which a natural instinct of selfishness forbid me share with gunga das. he however divine my unspoken think almost a soon a it be form. and to my intense astonishment give vent to a long low chuckle of derision the laughter be it understand of a superior or at least of an equal. 
you will not he have drop the sir completely after his open sentence make any escape that way. but you can try. i have try. once only. 
the sensation of nameless terror and abject fear which i have in vain attempt to strive against overmaster me completely. my long fast it be now close upon ten o clock and i have eat nothing since tiffin on the previous day combine with the violent and unnatural agitation of the ride have exhaust me and i verily believe that for a few minute i act a one mad. i hurl myself against the pitiless sand slope. i run round the base of the crater blaspheme and pray by turn. i crawl out among the sedge of the river front only to be drive back each time in an agony of nervous dread by the rifle bullet which cut up the sand round me for i dare not face the death of a mad dog among that hideous crowd and finally fell spend and rave at the curb of the well. no one have take the slight notice of an exhibition which make me blush hotly even when i think of it now. 
two or three men tread on my pant body a they draw water but they be evidently use to this sort of thing and have no time to waste upon me. the situation be humiliate gunga das indeed when he have bank the ember of his fire with sand be at some pain to throw half a cupful of fetid water over my head an attention for which i could have fall on my knee and thank him but he be laugh all the while in the same mirthless wheezy key that greet me on my first attempt to force the shoal. and so in a semi comatose condition i lay till noon. then be only a man after all i felt hungry and intimate a much to gunga das whom i have begin to regard a my natural protector. follow the impulse of the out world when deal with native i put my hand into my pocket and draw out four anna. the absurdity of the gift strike me at once and i be about to replace the money. 
gunga das however be of a different opinion give me the money say he. all you have or i will get help and we will kill you. all this a if it be the most natural thing in the world. 
a briton s first impulse i believe be to guard the content of his pocket. but a moment s reflection convince me of the futility of differ with the one man who have it in his power to make me comfortable. and with whose help it be possible that i might eventually escape from the crater. i give him all the money in my possession r. nine rupee eight anna and five pie for i always keep small change a bakshish when i be in camp. gunga das clutch the coin and hide them at once in his rag loin cloth his expression change to something diabolical a he look round to assure himself that no one have observe u. 
_now i will give you something to eat say he. 
what pleasure the possession of my money could have afford him i be unable to say. but inasmuch a it do give him evident delight i be not sorry that i have part with it so readily for i have no doubt that he would have have me kill if i have refuse. one doe not protest against the vagary of a den of wild beast. and my companion be low than any beast. while i devour what gunga das have provide a coarse chapatti and a cupful of the foul well water the people show not the faint sign of curiosity that curiosity which be so rampant a a rule in an indian village. 
i could even fancy that they despise me. at all event they treat me with the most chill indifference and gunga das be nearly a bad. i ply him with question about the terrible village and receive extremely unsatisfactory answer. so far a i could gather it have be in existence from time immemorial whence i conclude that it be at least a century old and during that time no one have ever be know to escape from it. [i have to control myself here with both hand l the blind terror should lay hold of me a second time and drive me rave round the crater. ] gunga das take a malicious pleasure in emphasize this point and in watch me wince. nothing that i could do would induce him to tell me who the mysterious they be. 
it be so order he would reply and i do not yet know any one who ha disobey the order. 
only wait till my servant find that i be miss i retort and i promise you that this place shall be clear off the face of the earth and i ll give you a lesson in civility too my friend. 
your servant would be tear in piece before they come near this place. and besides you be dead my dear friend. it be not your fault of course but none the le you be dead and bury. 
at irregular interval supply of food i be tell be drop down from the land side into the amphitheatre and the inhabitant fight for them like wild beast. when a man felt his death come on he retreat to his lair and die there. the body be sometimes drag out of the hole and throw on to the sand or allow to rot where it lay. 
the phrase throw on to the sand catch my attention and i ask gunga das whether this sort of thing be not likely to breed a pestilence. 
that say he with another of his wheezy chuckle you may see for yourself subsequently. you will have much time to make observation. 
whereat to his great delight i wince once more and hastily continue the conversation. and how do you live here from day to day. what do you do. the question elicit exactly the same answer a before couple with the information that this place be like your european heaven. there be neither marry nor give in marriage. 
gunga das ha be educate at a mission school and a he himself admit have he only change his religion like a wise man might have avoid the live grave which be now his portion. but a long a i be with him i fancy he be happy. 
here be a sahib a representative of the dominant race helpless a a child and completely at the mercy of his native neighbor in a deliberate lazy way he set himself to torture me a a schoolboy would devote a rapturous half hour to watch the agony of an impale beetle or a a ferret in a blind burrow might glue himself comfortably to the neck of a rabbit. the burden of his conversation be that there be no escape of no kind whatever and that i should stay here till i die and be throw on to the sand. if it be possible to forejudge the conversation of the damn on the advent of a new soul in their abide i should say that they would speak a gunga das do to me throughout that long afternoon. i be powerless to protest or answer. all my energy be devote to a struggle against the inexplicable terror that threaten to overwhelm me again and again. i can compare the feel to nothing except the struggle of a man against the overpower nausea of the channel passage only my agony be of the spirit and infinitely more terrible. 
a the day wear on the inhabitant begin to appear in full strength to catch the ray or the afternoon sun which be now slop in at the mouth of the crater. they assemble in little knot and talk among themselves without even throw a glance in my direction. about four o clock a far a i could judge gunga das rise and dive into his lair for a moment emerge with a live crow in his hand. the wretched bird be in a most draggle and deplorable condition but seem to be in no way afraid of it master. advance cautiously to the river front gunga das step from tussock to tussock until he have reach a smooth patch of sand directly in the line of the boat s fire. the occupant of the boat take no notice. here he stop and with a couple of dexterous turn of the wrist peg the bird on it back with outstretched wing. a be only natural the crow begin to shriek at once and beat the air with it claw. in a few second the clamor have attract the attention of a bevy of wild crow on a shoal a few hundred yard away where they be discuss something that look like a corpse. half a dozen crow fly over at once to see what be go on and also a it prove to attack the pinion bird. gunga das who have lie down on a tussock motion to me to be quiet though i fancy this be a needle precaution. in a moment and before i could see how it happen a wild crow who have grapple with the shriek and helpless bird be entangle in the latter s claw swiftly disengage by gunga das and peg down beside it companion in adversity. curiosity it seem overpower the rest of the flock and almost before gunga das and i have time to withdraw to the tussock two more captive be struggle in the upturned claw of the decoy. so the chase if i can give it so dignify a name continue until gunga das have capture seven crow. five of them he throttle at once reserve two for further operation another day. i be a good deal impress by this to me novel method of secure food and compliment gunga das on his skill. 
it be nothing to do say he. to morrow you must do it for me. you be strong than i be. 
this calm assumption of superiority upset me not a little and i answer peremptorily. indeed you old ruffian. what do you think i have give you money for. 
very well be the unmoved reply. perhaps not to morrow nor the day after nor subsequently. but in the end and for many year you will catch crow and eat crow and you will thank your european god that you have crow to catch and eat. 
i could have cheerfully strangle him for this. but judge it best under the circumstance to smother my resentment. an hour late i be eat one of the crow. and a gunga das have say thank my god that i have a crow to eat. never a long a i live shall i forget that even meal. the whole population be squat on the hard sand platform opposite their den huddle over tiny fire of refuse and dry rush. death have once lay his hand upon these men and forbear to strike seem to stand aloof from them now. for most of our company be old men bend and wear and twist with year and woman age to all appearance a the fate themselves. they sit together in knot and talk god only know what they find to discus in low equable tone curiously in contrast to the strident babble with which native be accustom to make day hideous. now and then an access of that sudden fury which have possess me in the morning would lay hold on a man or woman. and with yell and imprecation the sufferer would attack the steep slope until baffle and bleed he fell back on the platform incapable of move a limb. the others would never even raise their eye when this happen a men too well aware of the futility of their fellow attempt and weary with their useless repetition. i saw four such outburst in the course of that even. 
gunga das take an eminently business like view of my situation and while we be din i can afford to laugh at the recollection now but it be painful enough at the time propound the term on which he would consent to do for me. my nine rupee eight anna he argue at the rate of three anna a day would provide me with food for fifty one day or about seven week. that be to say he would be will to cater for me for that length of time. at the end of it i be to look after myself. for a further consideration videlicet my boot he would be will to allow me to occupy the den next to his own and would supply me with a much dry grass for bed a he could spare. 
very well gunga das i reply. to the first term i cheerfully agree but a there be nothing on earth to prevent my kill you a you sit here and take everything that you have. i think of the two invaluable crow at the time. i flatly refuse to give you my boot and shall take whichever den i please. 
the stroke be a bold one and i be glad when i saw that it have succeed gunga das change his tone immediately and disavow all intention of ask for my boot. at the time it do not strike me a at all strange that i a civil engineer a man of thirteen year stand in the service and i trust an average englishman should thus calmly threaten murder and violence against the man who have for a consideration it be true take me under his wing. i have leave the world it seem for century. i be a certain then a i be now of my own existence that in the accurse settlement there be no law save that of the strong. that the live dead men have throw behind them every canon of the world which have cast them out. and that i have to depend for my own life on my strength and vigilance alone. the crew of the ill fat mignonette be the only men who would understand my frame of mind. at present i argue to myself i be strong and a match for six of these wretch. it be imperatively necessary that i should for my own sake keep both health and strength until the hour of my release come if it ever doe. 
fortify with these resolution i eat and drink a much a i could and make gunga das understand that i intend to be his master and that the least sign of insubordination on his part would be visit with the only punishment i have it in my power to inflict sudden and violent death. shortly after this i go to bed. that be to say gunga das give me a double armful of dry bent which i thrust down the mouth of the lair to the right of his and follow myself foot foremost. the hole run about nine foot into the sand with a slight downward inclination and be neatly shore with timber. from my den which face the river front i be able to watch the water of the sutlej flow past under the light of a young moon and compose myself to sleep a best i might. 
the horror of that night i shall never forget. my den be nearly a narrow a a coffin and the side have be wear smooth and greasy by the contact of innumerable naked body add to which it smell abominably. sleep be altogether out of question to one in my excite frame of mind. a the night wear on it seem that the entire amphitheatre be fill with legion of unclean devil that troop up from the shoal below mock the unfortunate in their lair. 
personally i be not of an imaginative temperament very few engineer be but on that occasion i be a completely prostrate with nervous terror a any woman. after half an hour or so however i be able once more to calmly review my chance of escape. any exit by the steep sand wall be of course impracticable. i have be thoroughly convince of this some time before. it be possible just possible that i might in the uncertain moonlight safely run the gauntlet of the rifle shot. the place be so full of terror for me that i be prepare to undergo any risk in leave it. imagine my delight then when after creep stealthily to the river front i find that the infernal boat be not there. my freedom lay before me in the next few step. 
by walk out to the first shallow pool that lay at the foot of the project leave horn of the horseshoe i could wade across turn the flank of the crater and make my way inland. without a moment s hesitation i march briskly past the tussock where gunga das have snare the crow and out in the direction of the smooth white sand beyond. my first step from the tuft of dry grass show me how utterly futile be any hope of escape. for a i put my foot down i felt an indescribable draw suck motion of the sand below. another moment and my leg be swallow up nearly to the knee. in the moonlight the whole surface of the sand seem to be shake with devilish delight at my disappointment. i struggle clear sweat with terror and exertion back to the tussock behind me and fell on my face. 
my only mean of escape from the semicircle be protect with a quicksand. 
how long i lay i have not the faint idea. but i be rouse at last by the malevolent chuckle of gunga das at my ear. i would advise you protector of the poor. the ruffian be speak english. to return to your house. it be unhealthy to lie down here. moreover when the boat return you will most certainly be rifle at. he stand over me in the dim light of the dawn chuckle and laugh to himself. 
suppress my first impulse to catch the man by the neck and throw him on to the quicksand i rise sullenly and follow him to the platform below the burrow. 
suddenly and futilely a i think while i speak i ask. gunga das what be the good of the boat if i can t get out anyhow. i recollect that even in my deep trouble i have be speculate vaguely on the waste of ammunition in guard an already well protect foreshore. 
gunga das laugh again and make answer. they have the boat only in daytime. it be for the reason that there be a way. i hope we shall have the pleasure of your company for much long time. it be a pleasant spot when you have be here some year and eat roast crow long enough. 
i stagger numb and helpless toward the fetid burrow allot to me and fell asleep. an hour or so late i be awaken by a pierce scream the shrill high pitch scream of a horse in pain. those who have once hear that will never forget the sound. i find some little difficulty in scramble out of the burrow. when i be in the open i saw pornic my poor old pornic lie dead on the sandy soil. how they have kill him i cannot guess. gunga das explain that horse be good than crow and great good of great number be political maxim. we be now republic mister juke and you be entitle to a fair share of the beast. if you like we will pas a vote of thank. shall i propose. 
yes we be a republic indeed. a republic of wild beast pen at the bottom of a pit to eat and fight and sleep till we die. i attempt no protest of any kind but sit down and star at the hideous sight in front of me. in le time almost than it take me to write this pornic s body be divide in some unclean way or other. the men and woman have drag the fragment on to the platform and be prepare their morning meal. gunga das cook mine. the almost irresistible impulse to fly at the sand wall until i be weary lay hold of me afresh and i have to struggle against it with all my might. gunga das be offensively jocular till i tell him that if he address another remark of any kind whatever to me i should strangle him where he sit. this silence him till silence become insupportable and i bid him say something. 
you will live here till you die like the other feringhi he say coolly watch me over the fragment of gristle that he be gnaw. 
what other sahib you swine. speak at once and don t stop to tell me a lie. 
he be over there answer gunga das point to a burrow mouth about four door to the leave of my own. you can see for yourself. he die in the burrow a you will die and i will die and a all these men and woman and the one child will also die. 
for pity s sake tell me all you know about him. who be he. when do he come and when do he die. 
this appeal be a weak step on my part. gunga das only leer and reply. i will not unless you give me something first. 
then i recollect where i be and strike the man between the eye partially stun him. he step down from the platform at once and cringe and fawn and weep and attempt to embrace my foot lead me round to the burrow which he have indicate. 
i know nothing whatever about the gentleman your god be my witness that i do not he be a anxious to escape a you be and he be shoot from the boat though we all do all thing to prevent him from attempt. he be shoot here. gunga das lay his hand on his lean stomach and bow to the earth. 
well and what then. go on. 
and then and then your honor we carry him into his house and give him water and put wet cloth on the wind and he lay down in his house and give up the ghost. 
in how long. in how long. 
about half an hour after he receive his wind. i call vishnu to witness yell the wretched man that i do everything for him. everything which be possible that i do. 
he throw himself down on the grind and clasp my ankle. but i have my doubt about gunga das s benevolence and kick him off a he lay protest. 
i believe you rob him of everything he have. but i can find out in a minute or two. how long be the sahib here. 
nearly a year and a half. i think he must have go mad. but hear me swear protector of the poor. win t your honor hear me swear that i never touch an article that belong to him. what be your worship go to do. 
i have take gunga das by the waist and have haul him on to the platform opposite the desert burrow. a i do so i think of my wretched fellow prisoner s unspeakable misery among all these horror for eighteen month and the final agony of die like a rat in a hole with a bullet wind in the stomach. gunga das fancy i be go to kill him and howl pitifully. the rest of the population in the plethora that follow a full flesh meal watch u without stir. 
go inside gunga das say i and fetch it out. 
i be feel sick and faint with horror now. gunga das nearly roll off the platform and howl aloud. 
but i be brahmin sahib a high caste brahmin. by your soul by your father s soul do not make me do this thing. 
brahmin or no brahmin by my soul and my father s soul in you go. i say and seize him by the shoulder i cram his head into the mouth of the burrow kick the rest of him in and sit down cover my face with my hand. 
at the end of a few minute i hear a rustle and a creak. then gunga das in a sob choke whisper speak to himself. then a soft thud and i uncover my eye. 
the dry sand have turn the corpse entrust to it keep into a yellow brown mummy. i tell gunga das to stand off while i examine it. the body clothe in an olive green hunt suit much stain and wear with leather pad on the shoulder be that of a man between thirty and forty above middle height with light sandy hair long mustache and a rough unkempt beard. the leave canine of the upper jaw be miss and a portion of the lobe of the right ear be go. on the second finger of the leave hand be a ring a shield shape bloodstone set in gold with a monogram that might have be either b. k. or b. l. on the third finger of the right hand be a silver ring in the shape of a coil cobra much wear and tarnish. gunga das deposit a handful of trifle he have pick out of the burrow at my foot and cover the face of the body with my handkerchief i turn to examine these. i give the full list in the hope that it may lead to the identification of the unfortunate man. 
bowl of a briarwood pipe serrate at the edge. much wear and blacken. bind with string at the screw. 
two patent lever key. ward of both break. 
tortoise shell handle penknife silver or nickel name plate mark with monogram b. k. 
envelope postmark undecipherable bear a victorian stamp address to miss mon. rest illegible. ham nt. 
imitation crocodile skin notebook with pencil. first forty five page blank. four and a half illegible. fifteen others fill with private memoranda relate chiefly to three person a mr. l. singleton abbreviate several time to lot single mr. s. may and garmison refer to in place a jerry or jack. 
handle of small size hunt knife. blade snap short. buck s horn diamond cut with swivel and ring on the butt. fragment of cotton cord attach. 
it must not be suppose that i inventoried all these thing on the spot a fully a i have here write them down. the notebook first attract my attention and i put it in my pocket with a view to study it late on. the rest of the article i convey to my burrow for safety s sake and there be a methodical man i inventoried them. i then return to the corpse and order gunga das to help me to carry it out to the river front. while we be engage in this the explode shell of an old brown cartridge drop out of one of the pocket and roll at my foot. gunga das have not see it. and i fell to think that a man doe not carry explode cartridge case especially brown which will not bear load twice about with him when shoot. in other word that cartridge case ha be fire inside the crater. consequently there must be a gun somewhere. i be on the verge of ask gunga das but check myself know that he would lie. we lay the body down on the edge of the quicksand by the tussock. it be my intention to push it out and let it be swallow up the only possible mode of burial that i could think of. i order gunga das to go away. 
then i gingerly put the corpse out on the quicksand. in do so it be lie face downward i tear the frail and rotten khaki shoot coat open disclose a hideous cavity in the back. i have already tell you that the dry sand have a it be mummify the body. a moment s glance show that the gap hole have be cause by a gun shoot wind. the gun must have be fire with the muzzle almost touch the back. the shoot coat be intact have be draw over the body after death which must have be instantaneous. the secret of the poor wretch s death be plain to me in a flash. some one of the crater presumably gunga das must have shoot him with his own gun the gun that fit the brown cartridge. he have never attempt to escape in the face of the rifle fire from the boat. 
i push the corpse out hastily and saw it sink from sight literally in a few second. i shudder a i watch. in a daze half conscious way i turn to peruse the notebook. a stain and discolor slip of paper have be insert between the bind and the back and drop out a i open the page. this be what it contain. four out from crow clump. three leave. nine out. two right. three back. two leave. fourteen out. two leave. seven out. one leave. nine back. two right. six back. four right. seven back. the paper have be burn and char at the edge. what it mean i could not understand. i sit down on the dry bent turn it over and over between my finger until i be aware of gunga das stand immediately behind me with glow eye and outstretched hand. 
have you get it. he pant. will you not let me look at it also. i swear that i will return it. 
get what. return what. i ask. 
that which you have in your hand. it will help u both. he stretch out his long bird like talon tremble with eagerness. 
i could never find it he continue. he have secrete it about his person. therefore i shoot him but nevertheless i be unable to obtain it. 
gunga das have quite forget his little fiction about the rifle bullet. i receive the information perfectly calmly. morality be blunt by consort with the dead who be alive. 
what on earth be you rave about. what be it you want me to give you. 
the piece of paper in the notebook. it will help u both. oh you fool. you fool. can you not see what it will do for u. we shall escape. 
his voice rise almost to a scream and he dance with excitement before me. i own i be move at the chance of get away. 
don t skip. explain yourself. do you mean to say that this slip of paper will help u. what doe it mean. 
read it aloud. read it aloud. i beg and i pray you to read it aloud. 
i do so. gunga das listen delightedly and draw an irregular line in the sand with his finger. 
see now. it be the length of his gun barrel without the stock. i have those barrel. four gun barrel out from the place where i catch crow. straight out. do you follow me. then three leave ah. how well i remember when that man work it out night after night. then nine out and so on. out be always straight before you across the quicksand. he tell me so before i kill him. 
but if you know all this why didn t you get out before. 
i do not know it. he tell me that he be work it out a year and a half ago and how he be work it out night after night when the boat have go away and he could get out near the quicksand safely. then he say that we would get away together. but i be afraid that he would leave me behind one night when he have work it all out and so i shoot him. besides it be not advisable that the men who once get in here should escape. only i and i be a brahmin. 
the prospect of escape have bring gunga das s caste back to him. he stand up walk about and gesticulate violently. eventually i manage to make him talk soberly and he tell me how this englishman have spend six month night after night in explore inch by inch the passage across the quicksand. how he have declare it to be simplicity itself up to within about twenty yard of the river bank after turn the flank of the leave horn of the horseshoe. this much he have evidently not complete when gunga das shoot him with his own gun. 
in my frenzy of delight at the possibility of escape i recollect shake hand effusively with gunga das after we have decide that we be to make an attempt to get away that very night. it be weary work wait throughout the afternoon. 
about ten o clock a far a i could judge when the moon have just rise above the lip of the crater gunga das make a move for his burrow to bring out the gun barrel whereby to measure our path. all the other wretched inhabitant have retire to their lair long ago. the guardian boat drift down stream some hour before and we be utterly alone by the crow clump. gunga das while carry the gun barrel let slip the piece of paper which be to be our guide. i stoop down hastily to recover it and a i do so i be aware that the diabolical brahmin be aim a violent blow at the back of my head with the gun barrel. it be too late to turn round. i must have receive the blow somewhere on the nape of my neck. a hundred thousand fiery star dance before my eye and i fell forward senseless at the edge of the quicksand. 
when i recover consciousness the moon be go down and i be sensible of intolerable pain in the back of my head. gunga das have disappear and my mouth be full of blood. i lay down again and pray that i might die without more ado. then the unreasoning fury which i have before mention lay hold upon me and i stagger inland toward the wall of the crater. it seem that some one be call to me in a whisper sahib. sahib. sahib. exactly a my bearer use to call me in the morning. i fancy that i be delirious until a handful of sand fell at my foot then i look up and saw a head peer down into the amphitheatre the head of dunnoo my dog boy who attend to my collie. a soon a he have attract my attention he hold up his hand and show a rope. i motion stagger to and fro the while that he should throw it down. it be a couple of leather punkah rope knot together with a loop at one end. i slip the loop over my head and under my arm. hear dunnoo urge something forward. be conscious that i be be drag face downward up the steep sand slope and the next instant find myself choke and half faint on the sand hill overlook the crater. dunnoo with his face ashy grey in the moonlight implore me not to stay but to get back to my tent at once. 
it seem that he have track pornic s footprint fourteen mile across the sand to the crater. have return and tell my servant who flatly refuse to meddle with any one white or black once fall into the hideous village of the dead. whereupon dunnoo have take one of my pony and a couple of punkah rope return to the crater and haul me out a i have describe. 
to cut a long story short dunnoo be now my personal servant on a gold mohur a month a sum which i still think far too little for the service he ha render. nothing on earth will induce me to go near that devilish spot again or to reveal it whereabouts more clearly than i have do. of gunga das i have never find a trace nor do i wish to do. my sole motive in give this to be publish be the hope that some one may possibly identify from the detail and the inventory which i have give above the corpse of the man in the olive green hunt suit. 
in the house of suddhoo. 
a stone s throw out on either hand from that well order road we tread and all the world be wild and strange. churel and ghoul and djinn and sprite shall bear u company to night for we have reach the old land wherein the power of darkness range. 
from the dusk to the dawn. 
the house of suddhoo near the taksali gate be two storied with four carve window of old brown wood and a flat roof. you may recognize it by five red hand print arrange like the five of diamond on the whitewash between the upper window. bhagwan das the grocer and a man who say he get his live by seal cut live in the low story with a troop of wife servant friend and retainer. the two upper room use to be occupy by janoo and azizun and a little black and tan terrier that be steal from an englishman s house and give to janoo by a soldier. to day only janoo life in the upper room. suddhoo sleep on the roof generally except when he sleep in the street. he use to go to peshawar in the cold weather to visit his son who sell curiosity near the edwardes gate and then he sleep under a real mud roof. suddhoo be a great friend of mine because his cousin have a son who secure thank to my recommendation the post of head messenger to a big firm in the station. suddhoo say that god will make me a lieutenant governor one of these day. i dare say his prophecy will come true. he be very very old with white hair and no teeth worth show and he ha outlive his wit outlive nearly everything except his fondness for his son at peshawar. janoo and azizun be kashmiri lady of the city and theirs be an ancient and more or le honorable profession. but azizun ha since marry a medical student from the northwest and ha settle down to a most respectable life somewhere near bareilly. bhagwan das be an extortionate and an adulterator. he be very rich. the man who be suppose to get his live by seal cut pretend to be very poor. this let you know a much a be necessary of the four principal tenant in the house of suddhoo. then there be me of course. but i be only the chorus that come in at the end to explain thing. so i do not count. 
suddhoo be not clever. the man who pretend to cut seal be the clever of them all bhagwan das only know how to lie except janoo. she be also beautiful but that be her own affair. 
suddhoo s son at peshawar be attack by pleurisy and old suddhoo be trouble. the seal cutter man hear of suddhoo s anxiety and make capital out of it. he be abreast of the time. he get a friend in peshawar to telegraph daily account of the son s health. and here the story begin. 
suddhoo s cousin s son tell me one even that suddhoo want to see me. that he be too old and feeble to come personally and that i should be confer an everlasting honor on the house of suddhoo if i go to him. i go. but i think see how well off suddhoo be then that he might have send something good than an ekka_ which jolt fearfully to haul out a future lieutenant governor to the city on a muggy april even. the ekka do not run quickly. it be full dark when we pull up opposite the door of ranjit singh s tomb near the main gate of the fort. here be suddhoo and he say that by reason of my condescension it be absolutely certain that i should become a lieutenant governor while my hair be yet black. then we talk about the weather and the state of my health and the wheat crop for fifteen minute in the huzuri bagh under the star. 
suddhoo come to the point at last. he say that janoo have tell him that there be an order of the sirkar against magic because it be fear that magic might one day kill the empress of india. i didn t know anything about the state of the law. but i fancy that something interest be go to happen. i say that so far from magic be discourage by the government it be highly commend. the great official of the state practice it themselves. if the financial statement isn t magic i don t know what be. then to encourage him further i say that if there be any jadoo afoot i have not the least objection to give it my countenance and sanction and to see that it be clean jadoo white magic a distinguish from the unclean jadoo which kill folk. it take a long time before suddhoo admit that this be just what he have ask me to come for. then he tell me in jerk and quaver that the man who say he cut seal be a sorcerer of the clean kind. that every day he give suddhoo news of the sick son in peshawar more quickly than the lightning could fly and that this news be always corroborate by the letter. further that he have tell suddhoo how a great danger be threaten his son which could be remove by clean jadoo. and of course heavy payment. i begin to see exactly how the land lay and tell suddhoo that i also understand a little jadoo in the western line and would go to his house to see that everything be do decently and in order. we set off together. and on the way suddhoo tell me that he have pay the seal cutter between one hundred and two hundred rupee already. and the jadoo of that night would cost two hundred more. which be cheap he say consider the greatness of his son s danger. but i do not think he mean it. 
the light be all cloak in the front of the house when we arrive. i could hear awful noise from behind the seal cutter s shop front a if some one be groan his soul out. suddhoo shake all over and while we grope our way upstairs tell me that the jadoo have begin janoo and azizun meet u at the stair head and tell u that the jadoo work be come off in their room because there be more space there. janoo be a lady of a freethinking turn of mind. she whisper that the jadoo be an invention to get money out of suddhoo and that the seal cutter would go to a hot place when he die. suddhoo be nearly cry with fear and old age. he keep walk up and down the room in the half light repeat his son s name over and over again and ask azizun if the seal cutter ought not to make a reduction in the case of his own landlord. janoo pull me over to the shadow in the recess of the carve bow window. the board be up and the room be only light by one tiny oil lamp. there be no chance of my be see if i stay still. 
presently the groan below cease and we hear step on the staircase. that be the seal cutter. he stop outside the door a the terrier bark and azizun fumble at the chain and he tell suddhoo to blow out the lamp. this leave the place in jet darkness except for the red glow from the two huqas that belong to janoo and azizun. the seal cutter come in and i hear suddhoo throw himself down on the floor and groan. azizun catch her breath and janoo back on to one of the bed with a shudder. there be a clink of something metallic and then shoot up a pale blue green flame near the grind. the light be just enough to show azizun press against one corner of the room with the terrier between her knee. janoo with her hand clasp lean forward a she sit on the bed. suddhoo face down quiver and the seal cutter. 
i hope i may never see another man like that seal cutter. he be strip to the waist with a wreath of white jasmine a thick a my wrist round his forehead a salmon color loin cloth round his middle and a steel bangle on each ankle. this be not awe inspire. it be the face of the man that turn me cold. it be blue grey in the first place. in the second the eye be roll back till you could only see the white of them. and in the third the face be the face of a demon a ghoul anything you please except of the sleek oily old ruffian who sit in the daytime over his turn lathe downstairs. he be lie on his stomach with his arm turn and cross behind him a if he have be throw down pinion. his head and neck be the only part of him off the floor. they be nearly at right angle to the body like the head of a cobra at spring. it be ghastly. in the centre of the room on the bare earth floor stand a big deep brass basin with a pale blue green light float in the centre like a night light. round that basin the man on the floor wriggle himself three time. how he do it i do not know. i could see the muscle ripple along his spine and fall smooth again. but i could not see any other motion. the head seem the only thing alive about him except that slow curl and uncurl of the labor back muscle janoo from the bed be breathe seventy to the minute. azizun hold her hand before her eye. and old suddhoo finger at the dirt that have get into his white beard be cry to himself. the horror of it be that the creep crawly thing make no sound only crawl. and remember this last for ten minute while the terrier whine and azizun shudder and janoo gasp and suddhoo cry. 
i felt the hair lift at the back of my head and my heart thump like a thermantidote paddle. luckily the seal cutter betray himself by his most impressive trick and make me calm again. after he have finish that unspeakable triple crawl he stretch his head away from the floor a high a he could and send out a jet of fire from his nostril. now i know how fire spout be do i can do it myself so i felt at ease. the business be a fraud. if he have only keep to that crawl without try to raise the effect goodness know what i might not have think. both the girl shriek at the jet of fire and the head drop chin down on the floor with a thud. the whole body lie then like a corpse with it arm truss. there be a pause of five full minute after this and the blue green flame die down. janoo stoop to settle one of her anklet while azizun turn her face to the wall and take the terrier in her arm. suddhoo put out an arm mechanically to janoo s huqa_ and she slide it across the floor with her foot. directly above the body and on the wall be a couple of flame portrait in stamp paper frame of the queen and the prince of wale. they look down on the performance and to my think seem to heighten the grotesqueness of it all. 
just when the silence be get unendurable the body turn over and roll away from the basin to the side of the room where it lay stomach up. there be a faint plop from the basin exactly like the noise a fish make when it take a fly and the green light in the centre revive. 
i look at the basin and saw bob in the water the dry shrivel black head of a native baby open eye open mouth and shave scalp. it be bad be so very sudden than the crawl exhibition. we have no time to say anything before it begin to speak. 
read poe s account of the voice that come from the mesmerize die man and you will realize le than one half of the horror of that head s voice. 
there be an interval of a second or two between each word and a sort of ring ring ring in the note of the voice like the timbre of a bell. it peal slowly a if talk to itself for several minute before i get rid of my cold sweat. then the bless solution strike me. i look at the body lie near the doorway and saw just where the hollow of the throat join on the shoulder a muscle that have nothing to do with any man s regular breathe twitch away steadily. the whole thing be a careful reproduction of the egyptian teraphin that one read about sometimes. and the voice be a clever and a appal a piece of ventriloquism a one could wish to hear. all this time the head be lip lip lap against the side of the basin and speak. it tell suddhoo on his face again whine of his son s illness and of the state of the illness up to the even of that very night. i always shall respect the seal cutter for keep so faithfully to the time of the peshawar telegram. it go on to say that skilled doctor be night and day watch over the man s life. and that he would eventually recover if the fee to the potent sorcerer whose servant be the head in the basin be double. 
here the mistake from the artistic point of view come in. to ask for twice your stipulate fee in a voice that lazarus might have use when he rise from the dead be absurd. janoo who be really a woman of masculine intellect saw this a quickly a i do. i hear her say _asli nahin. fareib. scornfully under her breath. and just a she say so the light in the basin die out the head stop talk and we hear the room door creak on it hinge. then janoo strike a match light the lamp and we saw that head basin and seal cutter be go. suddhoo be wring his hand and explain to any one who care to listen that if his chance of eternal salvation depend on it he could not raise another two hundred rupee. azizun be nearly in hysteric in the corner. while janoo sit down composedly on one of the bed to discus the probability of the whole thing be a bunao_ or make up. 
i explain a much a i know of the seal cutter s way of jadoo. but her argument be much more simple the magic that be always demand gift be no true magic say she. my mother tell me that the only potent love spell be those which be tell you for love. this seal cutter man be a liar and a devil. i dare not tell do anything or get anything do because i be in debt to bhagwan das the bunnia for two gold ring and a heavy anklet. i must get my food from his shop. the seal cutter be the friend of bhagwan das and he would poison my food. a fool s jadoo ha be go on for ten day and ha cost suddhoo many rupee each night. the seal cutter use black hen and lemon and mantra before. he never show u anything like this till to night. azizun be a fool and will be a purdahnashin soon. suddhoo ha lose his strength and his wit. see now. i have hop to get from suddhoo many rupee while he live and many more after his death. and behold he be spend everything on that offspring of a devil and a she as the seal cutter. 
here i say but what induce suddhoo to drag me into the business. of course i can speak to the seal cutter and he shall refund. the whole thing be child s talk shame and senseless. 
suddhoo be an old child say janoo. he ha live on the roof these seventy year and be a senseless a a milch goat. he bring you here to assure himself that he be not break any law of the sirkar_ whose salt he eat many year ago. he worship the dust off the foot of the seal cutter and that cow devourer ha forbid him to go and see his son. what doe suddhoo know of your law or the lightning post. i have to watch his money go day by day to that lie beast below. 
janoo stamp her foot on the floor and nearly cry with vexation. while suddhoo be whimper under a blanket in the corner and azizun be try to guide the pipe stem to his foolish old mouth. 
* * * * *. 
now the case stand thus. unthinkingly i have lay myself open to the charge of aid and abet the seal cutter in obtain money under false pretence which be forbid by section of the indian penal code. i be helpless in the matter for these reason. i cannot inform the police. what witness would support my statement. janoo refuse flatly and azizun be a veil woman somewhere near bareilly lose in this big india of ours. i dare not again take the law into my own hand and speak to the seal cutter. for certain be i that not only would suddhoo disbelieve me but this step would end in the poison of janoo who be bind hand and foot by her debt to the bunnia. suddhoo be an old dotard. and whenever we meet mumble my idiotic joke that the sirkar rather patronize the black art than otherwise. his son be well now. but suddhoo be completely under the influence of the seal cutter by whose advice he regulate the affair of his life. janoo watch daily the money that she hop to wheedle out of suddhoo take by the seal cutter and become daily more furious and sullen. 
she will never tell because she dare not. but unless something happen to prevent her i be afraid that the seal cutter will die of cholera the white arsenic kind about the middle of may. and thus i shall be privy to a murder in the house of suddhoo. 
black jack. 
to the wake av tim o hara come company all st. patrick s alley be there to see. robert buchanan. 
a the three musketeer share their silver tobacco and liquor together a they protect each other in barrack or camp and a they rejoice together over the joy of one so do they divide their sorrow. when ortheris s irrepressible tongue ha bring him into cell for a season or learoyd ha run amok through his kit and accoutrement or mulvaney ha indulge in strong water and under their influence reprove his command officer you can see the trouble in the face of the untouched two. and the rest of the regiment know that comment or jest be unsafe. generally the three avoid orderly room and the corner shop that follow leave both to the young blood who have not sow their wild oat. but there be occasion. 
for instance ortheris be sit on the drawbridge of the main gate of fort amara with his hand in his pocket and his pipe bowl down in his mouth. learoyd be lie at full length on the turf of the glacis kick his heel in the air and i come round the corner and ask for mulvaney. 
ortheris spat into the ditch and shake his head. no good seein im now say ortheris. e s a bloomin camel. listen. 
i hear on the flag of the veranda opposite to the cell which be close to the guard room a measure step that i could have identify in the tramp of an army. there be twenty pace crescendo_ a pause and then twenty diminuendo. 
that s im say ortheris. my gawd that s im. all for a bloomin button you could see your face in an a bite o lip that a bloomin hark angel would a guv back. 
mulvaney be do pack drill be compel that be to say to walk up and down for certain hour in full march order with rifle bayonet ammunition knapsack and overcoat. and his offence be be dirty on parade. i nearly fell into the fort ditch with astonishment and wrath for mulvaney be the smart man that ever mount guard and would a soon think of turn out uncleanly a of dispense with his trouser. 
who be the sergeant that check him. i ask. 
mullins o course say ortheris. there ain t no other man would whip im on the peg so. but mullins ain t a man. e s a dirty little pigscraper that s wot e be. 
what do mulvaney say. he s not the make of man to take that quietly. 
say. bin good for im if e d shut be mouth. lord ow we laugh. sargint e sez ye say i m dirty. well sez e when your wife let you blow your own nose for yourself perhaps you ll know wot dirt be. you re himperfectly eddicated sargint sez e an then we fell in. but after p rade e be up an mullins be swearin imself black in the face at ord ly room that mulvaney ad call im a swine an lord know wot all. you know mullins. e ll ave be ead break in one o these day. e s too big a bloomin liar for ord nary consumption. three hour can an kit sez the colonel. not for bein dirty on p rade but for avin say somthin to mullins tho i do not believe sez e you say wot e say you say. an mulvaney fell away sayin nothin. you know e never speak to the colonel for fear o gettin imself fresh cop. 
mullins a very young and very much marry sergeant whose manner be partly the result of innate depravity and partly of imperfectly digest board school come over the bridge and most rudely ask ortheris what he be do. 
me. say ortheris ow. i m wait for my c mission. seed it comin along yit. 
mullins turn purple and pass on. there be the sound of a gentle chuckle from the glacis where learoyd lay. 
e expect to get be c mission some day explain orth ri. gawd elp the mess that ave to put their ands into the same kiddy a im. wot time d you make it sir. fower. mulvaney ll be out in arf an hour. you don t want to buy a dorg sir do you. a pup you can trust arf rampore by the colonel s grey ound. 
ortheris i answer sternly for i know what be in his mind do you mean to say that. 
i didn t mean to arx money o you any ow say ortheris. i d a sell you the dorg good an cheap but but i know mulvaney ll want somethin after we ve walk im orf an i ain t get nothin nor e asn t neither i d sooner sell you the dorg sir. s trewth. i would. 
a shadow fell on the drawbridge and ortheris begin to rise into the air lift by a huge hand upon his collar. 
onything but t braass say learoyd quietly a he hold the londoner over the ditch. onything but t braass orth ri ma son. ah ve get one rupee eight anna of ma own. he show two coin and replace ortheris on the drawbridge rail. 
very good i say. where be you go to. 
goin to walk im orf wen e come out two mile or three or fower say ortheris. 
the footstep within cease. i hear the dull thud of a knapsack fall on a bedstead follow by the rattle of arm. ten minute late mulvaney faultlessly dress his lip tight and his face a black a a thunderstorm stalk into the sunshine on the drawbridge. learoyd and ortheris spring from my side and close in upon him both lean toward a horse lean upon the pole. in an instant they have disappear down the sink road to the cantonment and i be leave alone. mulvaney have not see fit to recognize me. so i know that his trouble must be heavy upon him. 
i climb one of the bastion and watch the figure of the three musketeer grow small and small across the plain. they be walk a fast a they could put foot to the grind and their head be bow. they fetch a great compass round the parade grind skirt the cavalry line and vanish in the belt of tree that fringe the low land by the river. 
i follow slowly and sight them dusty sweat but still keep up their long swing tramp on the river bank. they crash through the forest reserve head toward the bridge of boat and presently establish themselves on the bow of one of the pontoon. i ride cautiously till i saw three puff of white smoke rise and die out in the clear even air and know that peace have come again. at the bridge head they wave me forward with gesture of welcome. 
tie up your orse shout ortheris an come on sir. we re all goin ome in this ere bloomin boat. 
from the bridge head to the forest officer s bungalow be but a step. the mess man be there and would see that a man hold my horse. do the sahib require aught else a peg or beer. ritchie sahib have leave half a dozen bottle of the latter but since the sahib be a friend of ritchie sahib and he the mess man be a poor man. 
i give my order quietly and return to the bridge. mulvaney have take off his boot and be dabble his toe in the water. learoyd be lie on his back on the pontoon. and ortheris be pretend to row with a big bamboo. 
i m an ould fool say mulvaney reflectively dhraggin you two out here bekaze i be undher the black dog sulkin like a child. me that be soldierin when mullins an be damn to him be shquealin on a counterpin for five shillin a week an that not pay. bhoys i ve take you five mile out av natural pervarsity. phew. 
wot s the odds so long a you re appy. say ortheris apply himself afresh to the bamboo. a well ere a anywhere else. 
learoyd hold up a rupee and an eight anna bite and shake his head sorrowfully. five mile from t canteen all along o mulvaney s blast pride. 
i know ut say mulvaney penitently. why will ye come wid me. an yet i wud be mortial sorry if ye do not any time though i be ould enough to know betther. but i will do penance. i will take a dhrink av wather. 
ortheris squeak shrilly. the butler of the forest bungalow be stand near the railing with a basket uncertain how to clamber down to the pontoon. might a know d you d a get liquor out o bloomin desert sir say ortheris gracefully to me. then to the mess man. easy with them there bottle. they re worth their weight in gold. jock ye long arm beggar get out o that an hike em down. 
learoyd have the basket on the pontoon in an instant and the three musketeer gather round it with dry lip. they drink my health in due and ancient form and thereafter tobacco taste sweet than ever. they absorb all the beer and dispose themselves in picturesque attitude to admire the set sun no man speak for a while. 
mulvaney s head drop upon his chest and we think that he be asleep. 
what on earth do you come so far for. i whisper to ortheris. 
to walk im orf o course. when e s be check we allus walk im orf e ain t fit to be speak to those time nor e ain t fit to leave alone neither. so we take im till e be. 
mulvaney raise his head and star straight into the sunset. i have my rifle say he dreamily an i have my bay nit an mullins come round the corner an he look in my face an grin dishpiteful. you can t blow your own nose sez he. now i cannot tell fwhat mullins s expayrience may ha be but mother av god he be near to his death that minut than i have iv be to mine and that s le than the thicknuss av a hair. 
yes say ortheris calmly you d look fine with all your button take orf an the band in front o you walkin roun slow time. we re both front rank men me an jock when the rig ment s in ollow square bloomin fine you d look. the lord giveth an the lord taketh awai heasy with that there drop. bless be the naime o the lord he gulp in a quaint and suggestive fashion. 
mullins. wot s mullins. say learoyd slowly. ah d take a coomp ny o mullinses ma hand behind me. sitha mulvaney don t be a fool. 
_you be not check for fwhat you do not do an make a mock av afther. twas for le than that the tyrone wud ha send o hara to hell instid av lettin him go by his own choosin whin rafferty shoot him retort mulvaney. 
and who stop the tyrone from do it. i ask. 
that ould fool who s sorry he didn t stick the pig mullins. his head drop again. when he raise it he shiver and put his hand on the shoulder of his two companion. 
ye ve walk the divil out av me bhoys say he. 
ortheris shoot out the red hot dottel of his pipe on the back of the hairy fist. they say ell s otter than that say he a mulvaney swear aloud. you be warn so. look yonder. he point across the river to a ruin temple me an you an im_ he indicate me by a jerk of his head be there one day when hi make a bloomin show o myself. you an im stop me doin such an hi be on y wishful for to desert. you be makin a big bloomin show o yourself now. 
don t mind him mulvaney i say. dinah shadd win t let you hang yourself yet awhile and you don t intend to try it either. let s hear about the tyrone and o hara. rafferty shoot him for fool with his wife. what happen before that. 
there s no fool like an ould fool. you know you can do anythin wid me whin i m talkin. do i say i wud like to cut mullins s liver out. i deny the imputashin for fear that orth ri here wud report me ah. you wud tip me into the river wud you. sit quiet little man. anyways mullins be not worth the trouble av an extry p rade an i will trate him wid outrajis contimpt. the tyrone an o hara. o hara an the tyrone begad. ould day be hard to bring back into the mouth but they re always inside the head. 
follow a long pause. 
o hara be a divil. though i save him for the honor av the rig mint from his death that time i say it now. he be a divil a long bould black haired divil. 
which way. ask ortheris. 
woman. 
then i know another. 
not more than in reason if you mane me ye warp walkin shtick. i have be young an for why should i not have tuk what i cud. do i iv whin i be corp ril use the rise av my rank wan step an that take away more s the sorrow an the fault av me. to prosecute a nefarious inthrigue a o hara do. do i whin i be corp ril lay my spite upon a man an make his life a dog s life from day to day. do i lie a o hara lie till the young wan in the tyrone turn white wid the fear av the judgment av god killin thim all in a lump a ut kill the woman at devizes. i do not. i have sin my sin an i have make my confesshin an father victor know the bad av me. o hara be tuk before he cud spake on rafferty s doorstep an no man know the bad av him. but this much i know. 
the tyrone be recruit any fashion in the ould day. a draf from connemara a draf from portsmouth a draf from kerry an that be a blazin bad draf here there and iverywhere but the large av thim be oirish black oirish. now there be oirish an oirish. the good be good a the best but the bad be wurrst than the wurrst. ti this way. they clog together in piece a fast a thief an no wan know fwhat they will do till wan turn informer an the gang be bruk. but ut begin again a day late meetin in hole an corner an swearin bloody oath an shtickin a man in the back an runnin away an thin waitin for the blood money on the reward paper to see if ut s worth enough. those be the black oirish an ti they that bring dishgrace upon the name av oireland an thim i wud kill a i nearly kill wan wanst. 
but to reshume. my room twas before i be marry be wid twelve av the scum av the earth the pickin s av the gutter mane men that wud neither laugh nor talk nor yet get dhrunk a a man shud. they thried some av their dog s thricks on me but i dhrew a line round my cot an the man that thransgressed ut wint into hospital for three day good. 
o hara have put his spite on the room he be my color sargint an nothin cud we do to plaze him. i be young than i be now an i tuk what i get in the way av dress down and punishmint dhrill wid my tongue in my cheek. but it be diff rint wid the others an why i cannot say excipt that some men be borrun mane an go to dhirty murdher where a fist be more than enough. afther a whoile they change their chune to me an be desp rit frien ly all twelve av thim cursin o hara in chorus. 
eyah sez i o hara s a divil an i m not for denyin ut but be he the only man in the wurruld. let him go. he ll get tire av findin our kit foul an our coutrements onproperly kep. 
we will not let him go sez they. 
thin take him sez i an a dash poor yield you will get for your throuble. 
be he not misconductin himself wid slimmy s wife. sez another. 
she s common to the rig mint sez i. fwhat ha make ye this partic lar on a suddint. 
ha he not put his spite on the roomful av u. can we do anythin that he will not check u for. sez another. 
that s thrue sez i. 
will ye not help u to do aught sez another a big bould man like you. 
i will break his head upon his shoulthers av he put hand on me sez i. i will give him the lie av he say that i m dhirty an i wud not mind duckin him in the artillery trough if ut be not that i m thryin for my shtripes. 
be that all ye will do. sez another. have ye no more spunk than that ye blood dhrawn calf. 
blood dhrawn i may be sez i gettin back to my cot an makin my line round ut. but ye know that the man who come acrost this mark will be more blood dhrawn than me. no man give me the name in my mouth i sez. ondersthand i will have no part wid you in anythin ye do nor will i raise my fist to my shuperior. be any wan comin on. sez i. 
they make no move tho i give them full time but stud growlin an snarlin together at wan ind av the room. i tuk up my cap and wint out to canteen thinkin no little av mesilf and there i grow most ondacintly dhrunk in my leg. my head be all reasonable. 
houligan i sez to a man in e comp ny that be by way av bein a frind av mine. i m overtuk from the belt down. do you give me the touch av your shoulther to presarve my formation an march me acrost the grind into the high grass. i ll sleep ut off there sez i. an houligan he s dead now but good he be while he last walk wid me givin me the touch whin i wint wide ontil we come to the high grass an my faith the sky an the earth be fair rowlin undher me. i make for where the grass be thickust an there i slep off my liquor wid an easy conscience. i do not desire to come on book too frequent. my characther havin be shpotless for the good half av a year. 
whin i rouse the dhrink be dyin out in me an i felt a though a she cat have litter in my mouth. i have not learn to hould my liquor wid comfort in thim day. ti little betther i be now. i will get houligan to pour a bucket over my head think i an i wud ha rise but i hear some wan say. mulvaney can take the blame av ut for the backslidin hound he be. 
oho. sez i an my head ring like a guard room gong. fwhat be the blame that this young man must take to oblige tim vulmea. for twas tim vulmea that shpoke. 
i turn on my belly an crawl through the grass a bite at a time to where the spache come from. there be the twelve av my room sittin down in a little patch the dhry grass wavin above their head an the sin av black murdher in their heart. i put the stuff aside to get a clear view. 
fwhat s that. sez wan man jumpin up. 
a dog say vulmea. you re a nice hand to this job. a i say mulvaney will take the blame av ut come to a pinch. 
ti harrd to swear a man s life away sez a young wan. 
thank ye for that think i. now fwhat the divil be you paragins conthrivin against me. 
ti a easy a dhrinkin your quart sez vulmea. at seven or thereon o hara will come acrost to the marry quarter goin to call on slimmy s wife the swine. wan av u ll pas the wurrd to the room an we shtart the divil an all av a shine laughin an crackin on an t rowin our boot about. thin o hara will come to give u the ordher to be quiet the more by token bekaze the room lamp will be knock over in the larkin. he will take the straight road to the ind door where there s the lamp in the veranda an that ll bring him clear against the light a he shtands. he will not be able to look into the dhark. wan av u will loose off an a close shoot ut will be an shame to the man that miss. twill be mulvaney s rifle she that that be at the head av the rack there s no mistakin long shtocked cross eye bitch even in the dhark. 
the thief misname my ould firin piece out av jealousy i be pershuaded av that an ut make me more angry than all. 
but vulmea go on. o hara will dhrop an by the time the light s light again there ll be some six av u on the chest av mulvaney cryin murdher an rape. mulvaney s cot be near the ind door an the shmokin rifle will be lyin undher him whin we ve knock him over. we know an all the rig mint know that mulvaney ha give o hara more lip than any man av u. will there be any doubt at the coort martial. wud twelve honust sodger bhoys swear away the life av a dear quiet swate timpered man such a be mulvaney wid his line av pipe clay roun his cot threatenin u wid murdher av we overshtepped ut a we can truthful testify. 
mary mother av mercy. think i to mesilf. it be this to have an unruly number an fistes fit to use. oh the sneakin hound. 
the big dhrops run down my face for i be wake wid the liquor an have not the full av my wit about me. i lay shtill an hear thim workin themselves up to swear my life by tellin tale av ivry time i have put my mark on wan or another. an my faith they be few that be not so dishtinguished. twas all in the way av fair fight though for niver do i raise my hand excipt whin they have provoke me to ut. 
ti all well sez wan av thim but who s to do this shootin. 
fwhat matther. sez vulmea. ti mulvaney will do that at the coort martial. 
he will so sez the man but whose hand be put to the trigger in the room. 
who ll do ut. sez vulmea lookin round but divil a man answeared. they begin to dishpute till kiss that be always playin shpoil five sez. thry the kyards. wid that he opine his tunic an tuk out the greasy palammers an they all fell in wid the notion. 
deal on. sez vulmea wid a big rattlin oath an the black curse av shielygh come to the man that will not do his duty a the kyards say. amin. 
black jack be the masther sez kiss dealin. black jack sorr i shud expaytiate to you be the ace av shpades which from time immimorial ha be intimately connect wid battle murdher an suddin death. 
_wanst kiss deal an there be no sign but the men be whoite wid the workin s av their sowls. twice kiss deal an there be a grey shine on their cheek like the mess av an egg. three time kiss deal an they be blue. have ye not lose him. sez vulmea wipin the sweat on him. let s ha do quick. quick ut be sez kiss t rowin him the kyard. an ut fell face up on his knee black jack. 
thin they all cackle wid laughin. duty thrippence sez wan av thim an damn cheap at that price. but i cud see they all dhrew a little away from vulmea an lef him sittin playin wid the kyard. vulmea sez no word for a whoile but lick his lip cat way. thin he throw up his head an make the men swear by ivry oath know to stand by him not alone in the room but at the coort martial that be to set on me. he tould off five av the big to stretch me on my cot whin the shoot be fire an another man he tould off to put out the light an yet another to load my rifle. he wud not do that himself. an that be quare for twas but a little thing considerin. 
thin they swear over again that they wud not bethray wan another an crep out av the grass in diff rint way two by two. a mercy ut be that they do not come on me. i be sick wid fear in the pit av my stummick sick sick sick. afther they be all go i wint back to canteen an call for a quart to put a think in me. vulmea be there dhrinkin heavy an politeful to me beyond reason. fwhat will i do fwhat will i do. think i to mesilf whin vulmea wint away. 
presintly the arm rer sargint come in stiffin an crackin on not please wid any wan bekaze the martini henry bein new to the rig mint in those day we use to play the mischief wid her arrangemints. twas a long time before i cud get out av the way av thryin to pull back the back sight an turnin her over afther firin a if she be a snide. 
fwhat tailor men do they give me to work wid. sez the arm rer sargint. here s hogan his nose flat a a table lay by for a week an ivry comp ny sendin their arrums in knock to small shivreens. 
fwhat s wrong wid hogan sargint. sez i. 
wrong. sez the arm rer sargint. i show him a though i have be his mother the way av shtrippin a tini an he shtrup her clane an easy. i tould him to put her to again an fire a blank into the blow pit to show how the dirt hang on the groovin. he do that but he do not put in the pin av the fallin block an av coorse whin he fire he be strook by the block jumpin clear. well for him twas but a blank a full charge wud ha cut his oi out. 
i look a thrifle wise than a boil sheep s head. how s that sargint. sez i. 
this way ye blundherin man an don t you be doin ut sez he. wid that he show me a waster action the breech av her all cut away to show the inside an so plazed he be to grumble that he dimonstrated fwhat hogan have do twice over. an that come av not knowin the wepping you re purvided wid sez he. 
thank ye sargint sez i. i will come to you again for further information. 
ye will not sez he kape your clanin rod away from the breech pin or you will get into throuble. 
i wint outside an i could ha dance wid delight for the grandeur av ut. they will load my rifle good luck to thim whoile i m away think i and back i wint to the canteen to give them their clear chanst. 
the canteen be fillin wid men at the ind av the day. i make feign to be far go in dhrink an wan by wan all my roomful come in wid vulmea. i wint away walkin thick an heavy but not so thick an heavy that any wan cud ha tuk me. sure and thrue there be a kyartridge go from my pouch an lyin snug in my rifle. i be hot wid rage against thim all an i worry the bullet out wid my teeth a fast a i cud the room bein empty. then i tuk my boot an the clanin rod and knock out the pin av the fallin block. oh twas music when that pin rowled on the flure. i put ut into my pouch an stick a dab av dirt on the hole in the plate puttin the fallin block back. that ll do your business vulmea sez i lyin easy on the cot. come an sit on my chest the whole room av you an i will take you to my bosom for the big divils that iv cheat halter. i would have no mercy on vulmea. his oi or his life little i care. 
at dusk they come back the twelve av thim an they have all be dhrinkin. i be shammin sleep on the cot. wan man wint outside in the veranda. whin he whishtled they begin to rage roun the room an carry on tremenjus. but i niver want to hear men laugh a they do sky larkin too. twas like mad jackal. 
shtop that blast noise. sez o hara in the dark an pop go the room lamp. i cud hear o hara runnin up an the rattlin av my rifle in the rack an the men breathin heavy a they stud roun my cot. i cud see o hara in the light av the veranda lamp an thin i hear the crack av my rifle. she cry loud poor darlint bein mishandle. next minut five men be houldin me down. go easy i sez. fwhat s ut all about. 
thin vulmea on the flure raise a howl you cud hear from wan ind av cantonmints to the other. i m dead i m butcher i m blind. sez he. saint have mercy on my sinful sowl. sind for father constant. oh sind for father constant an let me go clean. by that i know he be not so dead a i cud ha wish. 
o hara pick up the lamp in the veranda wid a hand a stiddy a a rest. fwhat damn dog s thrick be this av yours. sez he and turn the light on tim vulmea that be shwimmin in blood from top to toe. the fallin block have spring free behin a full charge av powther good care i tuk to bite down the brass afther takin out the bullet that there might be somethin to give ut full worth an have cut tim from the lip to the corner av the right eye lavin the eyelid in tatthers an so up an along by the forehead to the hair. twas more av a rakin plough if you will ondherstand than a clean cut. an niver do i see a man bleed a vulmea do the dhrink an the stew that he be in pump the blood strong. the minut the men sittin on my chest hear o hara spakin they scatthered each wan to his cot an cry out very politeful. fwhat be ut sargint. 
fwhat be ut. sez o hara. shakin tim. well an good do you know fwhat ut be ye skulkin ditch lurkin dog. get a doolie_ an take this whimperin scutt away. there will be more hear av ut than any av you will care for. 
vulmea sit up rockin his head in his hand an moanin for father constant. 
be do. sez o hara dhraggin him up by the hair. you re none so dead that you cannot go fifteen year for thryin to shoot me. 
i do not sez vulmea. i be shootin mesilf. 
that s quare sez o hara for the front av my jackut be black wid your powther. he tuk up the rifle that be still warm an begin to laugh. i ll make your life hell to you sez he for attempt murdher an kapin your rifle onproperly. you ll be hang first an thin put undher stoppage for four fifteen. the rifle s do for sez he. 
why ti my rifle. sez i comin up to look. vulmea ye divil fwhat be you doin wid her answer me that. 
lave me alone sez vulmea. i m dyin. 
i ll wait till you re betther sez i an thin we two will talk ut out umbrageous. 
o hara pitch tim into the doolie_ none too tinder but all the bhoys kep by their cot which be not the sign av innocint men. i be huntin ivrywhere for my fallin block but not findin ut at all. i niver find ut. 
_now fwhat will i do. sez o hara swing the veranda light in his hand an lookin down the room. i have hate and contimpt av o hara an i have now dead tho he be but for all that will i say he be a brave man. he be baskin in purgathory this tide but i wish he cud hear that whin he stud lookin down the room an the bhoys shiver before the oi av him i know him for a brave man an i like him so. 
fwhat will i do. sez o hara agin an we hear the voice av a woman low an sof in the veranda. twas slimmy s wife come over at the shoot sittin on wan av the bench an scarce able to walk. 
o denny. denny dear sez she have they kilt you. 
o hara look down the room again an show his teeth to the gum. then he spat on the flare. 
you re not worth ut sez he. light that lamp ye dog an wid that he turn away an i saw him walkin off wid slimmy s wife. she thryin to wipe off the powther black on the front av his jackut wid her handkerchief. a brave man you be think i a brave man an a bad woman. 
no wan say a word for a time. they be all ashamed past spache. 
fwhat d you think he will do. sez wan av thim at last. he know we re all in ut. 
be we so. sez i from my cot. the man that sez that to me will be hurt. i do not know sez i fwhat onderhand divilmint you have conthrived but by what i ve see i know that you cannot commit murdher wid another man s rifle such shakin coward you be. i m goin to slape i sez an you can blow my head off whoile i lay. i do not slape though for a long time. can ye wonder. 
next morn the news be through all the rig mint an there be nothin that the men do not tell. o hara report fair an easy that vulmea be come to grief through tamperin wid his rifle in barricks all for to show the mechanism. an by my sowl he have the impart nince to say that he be on the sphot at the time an cud certify that ut be an accidint. you might ha knock my roomful down wid a straw whin they hear that. twas lucky for thim that the bhoys be always thryin to find out how the new rifle be make an a lot av thim have come up for easin the pull by shtickin bit av grass an such in the part av the lock that show near the thrigger. the first issue of the tinis be not cover in an i mesilf have ease the pull av mine time an agin. a light pull be ten point on the range to me. 
i will not have this foolishness. sez the colonel i will twist the tail off vulmea. sez he. but whin he saw him all tie up an groanin in hospital he change his will. make him an early convalescint sez he to the doctor an vulmea be make so for a warnin. his big bloody bandage an face pucker up to wan side do more to kape the bhoys from messin wid the inside av their rifle than any punishmint. 
o hara give no reason for fwhat he d say an all my roomful be too glad to inquire tho he put his spite upon thim more wearin than before. wan day howiver he tuk me apart very polite for he cud be that at the choosin. 
you re a good sodger tho you re a damn insolint man sez he. 
fair word sargint sez i or i may be insolint again. 
ti not like you sez he to lave your rifle in the rack widout the breech pin for widout the breech pin she be whin vulmea fire. i should ha find the break av ut in the eye av the hole else he sez. 
sargint sez i fwhat wud your life ha be worth av the breech pin have be in place for on my sowl my life wud be worth just a much to me av i tould you whether ut be or be not. be thankful the bullet be not there i sez. 
that s thrue sez he pull his moustache. but i do not believe that you for all your lip be in that business. 
sargint sez i i cud hammer the life out av a man in ten minuts wid my fistes if that man dishpleased me. for i be a good sodger an i will be threated a such an whoile my fistes be my own they re strong enough for all work i have to do. they do not fly back toward me. sez i lookin him betune the eye. 
you re a good man sez he lookin me betune the eye an oh he be a gran build man to see. you re a good man he sez an i cud wish for the pure frolic av ut that i be not a sargint or that you be not a privit. an you will think me no coward whin i say this thing. 
i do not sez i. i saw you whin vulmea mishandle the rifle. but sargint i sez take the wurrd from me now spakin a man to man wid the shtripes off tho ti little right i have to talk me be fwhat i be by natur. this time ye tuk no harm an next time ye may not but in the ind so sure a slimmy s wife come into the veranda so sure will ye take harm an bad harm. have think sargint sez i. be ut worth ut. 
ye re a bould man sez he breathin harrd. a very bould man. but i be a bould man tu. do you go your way privit mulvaney an i will go mine. 
we have no further spache thin or afther but wan by another he draft the twelve av my room out into other room an get thim spread among the comp ny for they be not a good breed to live together an the comp ny orf cer saw ut. they wud ha shoot me in the night av they have know fwhat i know. but that they do not. 
an in the ind a i say o hara meet his death from rafferty for foolin wid his wife. he wint his own way too well eyah too well. shtraight to that affair widout turnin to the right or to the lef he wint an may the lord have mercy on his sowl. amin. 
ear. ear. say ortheris point the moral with a wave of his pipe an this be im oo would be a bloomin vulmea all for the sake of mullins an a bloomin button. mullins never go after a woman in his life. mr. mullins she saw im one day. 
ortheris i say hastily for the romance of private ortheris be all too dare for publication look at the sun. it s quarter past six. 
o lord. three quarter of an hour for five an a arf mile. we ll ave to run like jimmy o. 
the three musketeer clamber on to the bridge and depart hastily in the direction of the cantonment road. when i overtake them i offer them two stirrup and a tail which they accept enthusiastically. ortheris hold the tail and in this manner we trot steadily through the shadow by an unfrequented road. 
at the turn into the cantonment we hear carriage wheel. it be the colonel s barouche and in it sit the colonel s wife and daughter. i catch a suppress chuckle and my beast spring forward with a light step. 
the three musketeer have vanish into the night. 
the take of lungtungpen. 
so we loose a bloomin volley an we make the beggar cut an when our pouch be empty out. we use the bloomin butt ho. my. don t yer come anigh when tommy be a playin with the baynit an the butt. barrack room ballad. 
my friend private mulvaney tell me this sit on the parapet of the road to dagshai when we be hunt butterfly together. he have theory about the army and color clay pipe perfectly. he say that the young soldier be the best to work with on account av the surpass innocinse av the child. 
now listen. say mulvaney throw himself full length on the wall in the sun. i m a bear scutt av the barrick room. the army s mate an dhrink to me bekaze i m wan av the few that can t quit ut. i ve put in sivinteen year an the pipeclay s in the marrow av me. av i cud have keep out av wan big dhrink a month i wud have be a hon ry lift nint by this time a nuisince to my betthers a laughin shtock to my equils an a curse to meself. bein fwhat i be i m privit mulvaney wid no good conduc pay an a devourin thirst. always barrin me little frind bob bahadur i know a much about the army a most men. 
i say something here. 
wolseley be shoot. betune you an me an that butterfly net he s a ramblin incoherint sort av a divil wid wan oi on the quane an the coort an the other on his bless silf everlastin ly play saysar an alexandrier rowled into a lump. now bob be a sinsible little man. wid bob an a few three year old i d swape any army av the earth into a towel an throw it away aftherward. faith i m not jokin. ti the bhoys the raw bhoys that don t know fwhat a bullut mane an wudn t care av they do that dhu the work. they re cram wid bull mate till they fairly ramp wid good livin. and thin av they don t fight they blow each other s hids off. ti the trut i m tellin you. they shud be keep on water an rice in the hot weather. but there d be a mut ny av twas do. 
do ye iv hear how privit mulvaney tuk the town av lungtungpen. i think not. twas the lift nint get the credit. but twas me plan the schame. a little before i be inviladed from burma me an four an twenty young wan undher a lift nint brazenose be ruinin our dijeshins thryin to catch dacoit. an such double end divils i niver know. ti only a dah an a snide that make a dacoit widout thim he s a paceful cultivator an felony for to shoot. we hunt an we hunt an tuk fever an elephints now an again. but no dacoit evenshually we puckarowed wan man trate him tinderly sez the lift nint. so i tuk him away into the jungle wid the burmese interprut r an my clanin rod. sez i to the man my paceful squireen sez i you shquot on your hunker an dimonstrate to my frind here where your frinds be whin they re at home. wid that i introjuced him to the clanin rod an he comminst to jabber. the interprut r interprutin in betweens an me helpin the intilligince departmint wid my clanin rod whin the man misremimbered. 
prisintly i learn that acrost the river about nine mile away be a town just dhrippin wid dah an bohs an arrow an dacoit and elephints an jingle. good. sez i. this office will now close. 
that night i go to the lift nint an communicate my information. i never think much of lift nint brazenose till that night. he be shtiff wid book an theouries an all manner av thrimmin s no manner av use. town do ye say. sez he. accordin to the theouries av war we shud wait for reinforcemints. faith. think i we d betther dig our graf thin. for the near throops be up to their shtocks in the marsh out mimbu way. but say the lift nint since ti a speshil case i ll make an excepshin. we ll visit this lungtungpen to night. 
the bhoys be fairly woild wid deloight whin i tould em. an by this an that they wint through the jungle like buck rabbit. about midnight we come to the shtrame which i have clane forget to minshin to my orficer. i be on ahead wid four bhoys an i think that the lift nint might want to theourise. shtrip boy. sez i. shtrip to the buff an shwim in where glory wait. but i can t shwim. sez two av thim. to think i should live to hear that from a bhoy wid a board school edukashin. sez i. take a lump av timber an me an conolly here will ferry ye over ye young lady. 
we get an ould tree trunk an push off wid the kit an the rifle on it. the night be chokin dhark an just a we be fairly embark i hear the lift nint behind av me callin out. there s a bite av a nullah here sorr sez i but i can feel the bottom already. so i cud for i be not a yard from the bank. 
bite av a nullah. bite av an eshtuary. sez the lift nint. go on ye mad irishman. shtrip bhoys. i hear him laugh. an the bhoys begin shtrippin an rollin a log into the wather to put their kit on. so me an conolly shtruck out through the warm wather wid our log an the rest come on behind. 
that shtrame be mile woide. orth ri on the rear rank log whisper we have get into the thames below sheerness by mistake. kape on shwimmin ye little blayguard sez i an don t go pokin your dirty joke at the irriwaddy silince men. sing out the lift nint. so we shwum on into the black dhark wid our chest on the log trustin in the saint an the luck av the british army. 
evenshually we hit grind a bite av sand an a man. i put my heel on the back av him. he skreeched an run. 
_now we ve do it. sez lift nint brazenose. where the divil be lungtungpen. there be about a minute and a half to wait. the bhoys lay a hould av their rifle an some thried to put their belt on. we be marchin wid fix baynits av coorse. thin we know where lungtungpen be. for we have hit the river wall av it in the dhark an the whole town blaze wid thim messin jingle an sniders like a cat s back on a frosty night. they be firin all way at wanst but over our hids into the shtrame. 
have you get your rifle. sez brazenose. get em. sez orth ri. i ve get that thief mulvaney s for all my back pay an she ll kick my heart sick wid that blunderin long shtock av hers. go on. yell brazenose whippin his sword out. go on an take the town. an the lord have mercy on our sowls. 
thin the bhoys give wan divastatin howl an prance into the dhark feelin for the town an blindin an stiffin like cavalry ridin master whin the grass prick their bare leg. i hammer wid the butt at some bamboo thing that felt wake an the rest come an hammer contagious while the jingle be jingle an feroshus yell from inside be shplittin our ear. we be too close under the wall for thim to hurt u. 
evenshually the thing whatever ut be bruk. an the six and twinty av u tumble wan after the other naked a we be borrun into the town of lungtungpen. there be a melly av a sumpshus kind for a whoile. but whether they tuk u all white an wet for a new breed av divil or a new kind av dacoit i don t know. they run a though we be both an we wint into thim baynit an butt shriekin wid laughin. there be torch in the shtreets an i saw little orth ri rubbin his showlther ivry time he loose my long shtock martini. an brazenose walkin into the gang wid his sword like diarmid av the gowlden collar bar he hadn t a stitch av clothin on him. we diskivered elephints wid dacoit under their belly an what wid wan thing an another we be busy till mornin takin possession av the town of lungtungpen. 
thin we halt an form up the wimmen howlin in the house an lift nint brazenose blushin pink in the light av the mornin sun. twas the most ondasint p rade i iv tuk a hand in. foive and twenty privits an a orficer av the line in review ordher an not a much a wud dust a fife betune em all in the way of clothin. eight av u have their belt an pouch on. but the rest have go in wid a handful av cartridge an the skin god give thim. they be a nakid a vanus. 
number off from the right. sez the lift nint. odd number fall out to dress. even number pathrol the town till relieve by the dress party. let me tell you pathrollin a town wid nothing on be an ex_pay_rience. i pathrolled for tin minute an begad before twas over i blush. the woman laugh so. i niver blush before or since. but i blush all over my carkiss thin. orth ri didn t pathrol. he sez only portsmith barricks an the ard av a sunday. thin he lay down an rowled any way wid laughin. 
whin we be all dhressed we count the dead sivinty foive dacoit besides wound. we tuk five elephints a hunder an sivinty sniders two hunder dah and a lot av other burglarious thruck. not a man av u be hurt excep maybe the lift nint an he from the shock to his dasincy. 
the headman av lungtungpen who surrinder d himself ask the interprut r av the english fight like that wid their clo e off what in the wurruld do they do wid their clo e on. orth ri begin rowlin his eye an crackin his finger an dancin a step dance for to impress the headman. he run to his house. an we spint the rest av the day carryin the lift nint on our showlthers round the town an playin wid the burmese baby fat little brown little divils a pretty a picturs. 
whin i be inviladed for the dysent ry to india i sez to the lift nint sorr sez i you ve the makin s in you av a great man. but av you ll let an ould sodger spake you re too fond of the ourisin. he shuk hand wid me and sez hit high hit low there s no plasin you mulvaney. you ve see me waltzin through lungtungpen like a red injin widout the warpaint an you say i m too fond av the ourisin. sorr sez i for i love the bhoy. i wud waltz wid you in that condishin through hell_ an so wud the rest av the men. thin i wint downshtrame in the flat an leave him my blessin. may the saint carry ut where ut shud go for he be a fine upstandin young orficer. 
to reshume. fwhat i ve say jist show the use av three year old. wud fifty season sodgers have take lungtungpen in the dhark that way. no. they d know the risk av fever and chill. let alone the shootin. two hundher might have do ut. but the three year old know little an care le. an where there s no fear there s no danger. catch thim young fee thim high an by the honor av that great little man bob behind a good orficer tisn t only dacoit they d smash wid their clo e off ti con ti nental ar r r mies. they tuk lungtungpen nakid. an they d take st. pethersburg in their dhrawers. begad they would that. 
here s your pipe sorr. shmoke her tinderly wid honey dew afther let the reek av the canteen plug die away. but ti no good thank to you all the same fillin my pouch wid your chop hay. canteen baccy s like the army. it shpoils a man s taste for moilder thing. 
so say mulvaney take up his butterfly net and return to barrack. 
the phantom rickshaw. 
may no ill dream disturb my rest nor power of darkness me molest. 
even hymn. 
one of the few advantage that india ha over england be a great knowability. after five year service a man be directly or indirectly acquaint with the two or three hundred civilian in his province all the mess of ten or twelve regiment and battery and some fifteen hundred other people of the non official caste in ten year his knowledge should be double and at the end of twenty he know or know something about every englishman in the empire and may travel anywhere and everywhere without pay hotel bill. 
globe trotter who expect entertainment a a right have even within my memory blunt this open heartedness but none the le to day if you belong to the inner circle and be neither a bear nor a black sheep all house be open to you and our small world be very very kind and helpful. 
rickett of kamartha stay with polder of kumaon some fifteen year ago. he mean to stay two night but be knock down by rheumatic fever and for six week disorganize polder s establishment stop polder s work and nearly die in polder s bedroom. polder behave a though he have be place under eternal obligation by rickett and yearly send the little ricketts a box of present and toy. it be the same everywhere. the men who do not take the trouble to conceal from you their opinion that you be an incompetent as and the woman who blacken your character and misunderstand your wife s amusement will work themselves to the bone in your behalf if you fall sick or into serious trouble. 
heatherlegh the doctor keep in addition to his regular practice a hospital on his private account an arrangement of loose box for incurable his friend call it but it be really a sort of fit up shed for craft that have be damage by stress of weather. the weather in india be often sultry and since the tale of brick be always a fix quantity and the only liberty allow be permission to work overtime and get no thank men occasionally break down and become a mix a the metaphor in this sentence. 
heatherlegh be the dear doctor that ever be and his invariable prescription to all his patient be lie low go slow and keep cool. he say that more men be kill by overwork than the importance of this world justify. he maintain that overwork slew pansay who die under his hand about three year ago. he ha of course the right to speak authoritatively and he laugh at my theory that there be a crack in pansay s head and a little bite of the dark world come through and press him to death. pansay go off the handle say heatherlegh after the stimulus of long leave at home. he may or he may not have behave like a blackguard to mr. keith wessington. my notion be that the work of the katabundi settlement run him off his leg and that he take to brood and make much of an ordinary p. & o. flirtation. he certainly be engage to miss mannering and she certainly break off the engagement. then he take a feverish chill and all that nonsense about ghost develop. overwork start his illness keep it alight and kill him poor devil. write him off to the system one man to take the work of two and a half men. 
i do not believe this. i use to sit up with pansay sometimes when heatherlegh be call out to patient and i happen to be within claim. the man would make me most unhappy by describe in a low even voice the procession that be always pass at the bottom of his bed. he have a sick man s command of language. when he recover i suggest that he should write out the whole affair from begin to end know that ink might assist him to ease his mind. when little boy have learn a new bad word they be never happy till they have chalk it up on a door. and this also be literature. 
he be in a high fever while he be write and the blood and thunder magazine diction he adopt do not calm him. two month afterward he be report fit for duty but in spite of the fact that he be urgently need to help an undermanned commission stagger through a deficit he prefer to die. vow at the last that he be hag ride. i get his manuscript before he die and this be his version of the affair date. 
my doctor tell me that i need rest and change of air. it be not improbable that i shall get both ere long rest that neither the red coat messenger nor the midday gun can break and change of air far beyond that which any homeward bind steamer can give me. in the meantime i be resolve to stay where i be. and in flat defiance of my doctor s order to take all the world into my confidence. you shall learn for yourselves the precise nature of my malady. and shall too judge for yourselves whether any man bear of woman on this weary earth be ever so torment a i. 
speak now a a condemn criminal might speak ere the drop bolt be draw my story wild and hideously improbable a it may appear demand at least attention. that it will ever receive credence i utterly disbelieve. two month ago i should have scout a mad or drink the man who have dare tell me the like. two month ago i be the happy man in india. to day from peshawur to the sea there be no one more wretched. my doctor and i be the only two who know this. his explanation be that my brain digestion and eyesight be all slightly affect. give rise to my frequent and persistent delusion. delusion indeed. i call him a fool. but he attend me still with the same unwearied smile the same bland professional manner the same neatly trim red whisker till i begin to suspect that i be an ungrateful evil temper invalid. but you shall judge for yourselves. 
three year ago it be my fortune my great misfortune to sail from gravesend to bombay on return from long leave with one agnes keith wessington wife of an officer on the bombay side. it doe not in the least concern you to know what manner of woman she be. be content with the knowledge that ere the voyage have end both she and i be desperately and unreasoningly in love with one another. heaven know that i can make the admission now without one particle of vanity. in matter of this sort there be always one who give and another who accept. from the first day of our ill omen attachment i be conscious that agnes s passion be a strong a more dominant and if i may use the expression a pure sentiment than mine. whether she recognize the fact then i do not know. afterward it be bitterly plain to both of a. 
arrive at bombay in the spring of the year we go our respective way to meet no more for the next three or four month when my leave and her love take u both to simla. there we spend the season together. and there my fire of straw burn itself out to a pitiful end with the close year. i attempt no excuse. i make no apology. mr. wessington have give up much for my sake and be prepare to give up all. from my own lip in august she learn that i be sick of her presence tire of her company and weary of the sound of her voice. ninety nine woman out of a hundred would have weary of me a i weary of them. seventy five of that number would have promptly avenge themselves by active and obtrusive flirtation with other men. mr. wessington be the hundredth. on her neither my openly express aversion nor the cut brutality with which i garnish our interview have the least effect. 
jack darling. be her one eternal cuckoo cry. i m sure it s all a mistake a hideous mistake. and we ll be good friend again some day. please forgive me jack dear. 
i be the offender and i know it. that knowledge transform my pity into passive endurance and eventually into blind hate the same instinct i suppose which prompt a man to savagely stamp on the spider he ha but half kill. and with this hate in my bosom the season of come to an end. 
next year we meet again at simla she with her monotonous face and timid attempt at reconciliation and i with loathe of her in every fibre of my frame. several time i could not avoid meet her alone. and on each occasion her word be identically the same. still the unreasoning wail that it be all a mistake. and still the hope of eventually make friend. i might have see have i care to look that that hope only be keep her alive. she grow more wan and thin month by month. you will agree with me at least that such conduct would have drive any one to despair. it be uncalled for. childish. unwomanly. i maintain that she be much to blame. and again sometimes in the black fever stricken night watch i have begin to think that i might have be a little kind to her. but that really be a delusion. i could not have continue pretend to love her when i didn t could i. it would have be unfair to u both. 
last year we meet again on the same term a before. the same weary appeal and the same curt answer from my lip. at least i would make her see how wholly wrong and hopeless be her attempt at resume the old relationship. a the season wear on we fell apart that be to say she find it difficult to meet me for i have other and more absorb interest to attend to. when i think it over quietly in my sick room the season of seem a confuse nightmare wherein light and shade be fantastically intermingle my courtship of little kitty mannering. my hope doubt and fear. our long ride together. my tremble avowal of attachment. her reply. and now and again a vision of a white face flit by in the rickshaw with the black and white livery i once watch for so earnestly. the wave of mr. wessington s gloved hand. and when she meet me alone which be but seldom the irksome monotony of her appeal. i love kitty mannering. honestly heartily love her and with my love for her grow my hatred for agnes. in august kitty and i be engage. the next day i meet those accurse magpie jhampanies at the back of jakko and move by some pass sentiment of pity stop to tell mr. wessington everything. she know it already. 
so i hear you re engage jack dear. then without a moment s pause. i m sure it s all a mistake a hideous mistake. we shall be a good friend some day jack a we ever be. 
my answer might have make even a man wince. it cut the die woman before me like the blow of a whip. please forgive me jack. i didn t mean to make you angry. but it s true it s true. 
and mr. wessington break down completely. i turn away and leave her to finish her journey in peace feel but only for a moment or two that i have be an unutterably mean hound. i look back and saw that she have turn her rickshaw with the idea i suppose of overtake me. 
the scene and it surround be photograph on my memory. the rain sweep sky. we be at the end of the wet weather. the sodden dingy pine the muddy road and the black powder rive cliff form a gloomy background against which the black and white livery of the jhampanies the yellow panel rickshaw and mr. wessington s down bow golden head stand out clearly. she be hold her handkerchief in her leave hand and be lean back exhaust against the rickshaw cushion. i turn my horse up a bypath near the sanjowlie reservoir and literally run away. once i fancy i hear a faint call of jack. this may have be imagination. i never stop to verify it. ten minute late i come across kitty on horseback. and in the delight of a long ride with her forget all about the interview. 
a week late mr. wessington die and the inexpressible burden of her existence be remove from my life. i go plainsward perfectly happy. before three month be over i have forget all about her except that at time the discovery of some of her old letter remind me unpleasantly of our bygone relationship. by january i have disinter what be leave of our correspondence from among my scatter belonging and have burn it. at the begin of april of this year i be at simla semi desert simla once more and be deep in lover s talk and walk with kitty. it be decide that we should be marry at the end of june. you will understand therefore that love kitty a i do i be not say too much when i pronounce myself to have be at that time the happy man in india. 
fourteen delightful day pass almost before i notice their flight. then arouse to the sense of what be proper among mortal circumstanced a we be i point out to kitty that an engagement ring be the outward and visible sign of her dignity a an engage girl. and that she must forthwith come to hamilton s to be measure for one. up to that moment i give you my word we have completely forget so trivial a matter. to hamilton s we accordingly go on the th of april. remember that whatever my doctor may say to the contrary i be then in perfect health enjoy a well balance mind and an absolutely tranquil spirit. kitty and i enter hamilton s shop together and there regardless of the order of affair i measure kitty for the ring in the presence of the amuse assistant. the ring be a sapphire with two diamond. we then ride out down the slope that lead to the combermere bridge and peliti s shop. 
while my waler be cautiously feel his way over the loose shale and kitty be laugh and chatter at my side while all simla that be to say a much of it a have then come from the plain be group round the read room and peliti s veranda i be aware that some one apparently at a vast distance be call me by my christian name. it strike me that i have hear the voice before but when and where i could not at once determine. in the short space it take to cover the road between the path from hamilton s shop and the first plank of the combermere bridge i have think over half a dozen people who might have commit such a solecism and have eventually decide that it must have be sing in my ear. immediately opposite peliti s shop my eye be arrest by the sight of four jhampanies in magpie livery pull a yellow panel cheap bazar rickshaw. in a moment my mind fly back to the previous season and mr. wessington with a sense of irritation and disgust. be it not enough that the woman be dead and do with without her black and white servitor reappear to spoil the day s happiness. whoever employ them now i think i would call upon and ask a a personal favor to change her jhampanies livery. i would hire the men myself and if necessary buy their coat from off their back. it be impossible to say here what a flood of undesirable memory their presence evoke. 
kitty i cry there be poor mr. wessington s jhampanies turn up again. i wonder who ha them now. 
kitty have know mr. wessington slightly last season and have always be interest in the sickly woman. 
what. where. she ask. i can t see them anywhere. 
even a she speak her horse swerve from a lade mule throw himself directly in front of the advance rickshaw. i have scarcely time to utter a word of warn when to my unutterable horror horse and rider pass through men and carriage a if they have be thin air. 
what s the matter. cry kitty. what make you call out so foolishly jack. if i be engage i don t want all creation to know about it. there be lot of space between the mule and the veranda. and if you think i can t ride there. 
whereupon wilful kitty set off her dainty little head in the air at a hand gallop in the direction of the band stand. fully expect a she herself afterward tell me that i should follow her. what be the matter. nothing indeed. either that i be mad or drink or that simla be haunt with devil. i rein in my impatient cob and turn round. the rickshaw have turn too and now stand immediately face me near the leave rail of the combermere bridge. 
jack. jack darling. there be no mistake about the word this time. they ring through my brain a if they have be shout in my ear. it s some hideous mistake i m sure. please forgive me jack and let s be friend again. 
the rickshaw hood have fall back and inside a i hope and pray daily for the death i dread by night sit mr. keith wessington handkerchief in hand and golden head bow on her breast. 
how long i star motionless i do not know. finally i be arouse by my syce take the waler s bridle and ask whether i be ill. from the horrible to the commonplace be but a step. i tumble off my horse and dash half faint into peliti s for a glass of cherry brandy. there two or three couple be gather round the coffee table discuss the gossip of the day. their triviality be more comfort to me just then than the consolation of religion could have be. i plunge into the midst of the conversation at once. chat laugh and jest with a face. when i catch a glimpse of it in a mirror. a white and draw a that of a corpse. three or four men notice my condition. and evidently set it down to the result of over many peg charitably endeavor to draw me apart from the rest of the lounger. but i refuse to be lead away i want the company of my kind a a child rush into the midst of the dinner party after a fright in the dark. i must have talk for about ten minute or so though it seem an eternity to me when i hear kitty s clear voice outside inquire for me. in another minute she have enter the shop prepare to roundly upbraid me for fail so signally in my duty. something in my face stop her. 
why jack she cry what have you be do. what ha happen. be you ill. thus drive into a direct lie i say that the sun have be a little too much for me. it be close upon five o clock of a cloudy april afternoon and the sun have be hide all day. i saw my mistake a soon a the word be out of my mouth. attempt to recover it. blunder hopelessly and follow kitty in a regal rage out of door amid the smile of my acquaintance. i make some excuse. i have forget what. on the score of my feel faint. and canter away to my hotel leave kitty to finish the ride by herself. 
in my room i sit down and try calmly to reason out the matter. here be i theobald jack pansay a well educate bengal civilian in the year of grace presumably sane certainly healthy drive in terror from my sweetheart s side by the apparition of a woman who have be dead and bury eight month ago. these be fact that i could not blink. nothing be further from my think than any memory of mr. wessington when kitty and i leave hamilton s shop. nothing be more utterly commonplace than the stretch of wall opposite peliti s. it be broad daylight. the road be full of people. and yet here look you in defiance of every law of probability in direct outrage of nature s ordinance there have appear to me a face from the grave. 
kitty s arab have go through the rickshaw. so that my first hope that some woman marvelously like mr. wessington have hire the carriage and the cooly with their old livery be lose. again and again i go round this treadmill of think. and again and again give up baffle and in despair. the voice be a inexplicable a the apparition i have originally some wild notion of confide it all to kitty. of beg her to marry me at once. and in her arm defy the ghostly occupant of the rickshaw. after all i argue the presence of the rickshaw be in itself enough to prove the existence of a spectral illusion. one may see ghost of men and woman but surely never of cooly and carriage. the whole thing be absurd. fancy the ghost of a hillman. 
next morning i send a penitent note to kitty implore her to overlook my strange conduct of the previous afternoon. my divinity be still very wroth and a personal apology be necessary. i explain with a fluency bear of nightlong ponder over a falsehood that i have be attack with a sudden palpitation of the heart the result of indigestion. this eminently practical solution have it effect. and kitty and i ride out that afternoon with the shadow of my first lie divide u. 
nothing would please her save a canter round jakko. with my nerve still unstring from the previous night i feebly protest against the notion suggest observatory hill jutogh the boileaugunge road anything rather than the jakko round. kitty be angry and a little hurt. so i yield from fear of provoke further misunderstand and we set out together toward chota simla. we walk a great part of the way and accord to our custom canter from a mile or so below the convent to the stretch of level road by the sanjowlie reservoir. the wretched horse appear to fly and my heart beat quick and quick a we near the crest of the ascent. my mind have be full of mr. wessington all the afternoon. and every inch of the jakko road bore witness to our old time walk and talk. the bowlder be full of it. the pine sing it aloud overhead. the rain feed torrent giggle and chuckle unseen over the shameful story. and the wind in my ear chant the iniquity aloud. 
a a fit climax in the middle of the level men call the lady mile the horror be await me. no other rickshaw be in sight only the four black and white jhampanies_ the yellow panel carriage and the golden head of the woman within all apparently just a i have leave them eight month and one fortnight ago. for an instant i fancy that kitty must see what i saw we be so marvelously sympathetic in all thing. her next word undeceive me not a soul in sight. come along jack and i ll race you to the reservoir building. her wiry little arab be off like a bird my waler follow close behind and in this order we dash under the cliff. half a minute bring u within fifty yard of the rickshaw i pull my waler and fell back a little. the rickshaw be directly in the middle of the road. and once more the arab pass through it my horse follow. jack. jack dear. please forgive me ring with a wail in my ear and after an interval. it s all a mistake a hideous mistake. 
i spur my horse like a man possess. when i turn my head at the reservoir work the black and white livery be still wait patiently wait under the grey hillside and the wind bring me a mock echo of the word i have just hear. kitty banter me a good deal on my silence throughout the remainder of the ride i have be talk up till then wildly and at random. to save my life i could not speak afterward naturally and from sanjowlie to the church wisely hold my tongue. 
i be to dine with the mannerings that night and have barely time to canter home to dress. on the road to elysium hill i overhear two men talk together in the dusk. it s a curious thing say one how completely all trace of it disappear. you know my wife be insanely fond of the woman. never could see anything in her myself. and want me to pick up her old rickshaw and cooly if they be to be get for love or money. morbid sort of fancy i call it. but i ve get to do what the memsahib tell me. would you believe that the man she hire it from tell me that all four of the men they be brother die of cholera on the way to hard war poor devil. and the rickshaw ha be break up by the man himself. tell me he never use a dead memsahib s rickshaw. spoil his luck. queer notion wasn t it. fancy poor little mr. wessington spoil any one s luck except her own. i laugh aloud at this point. and my laugh jar on me a i utter it. so there be ghost of rickshaw after all and ghostly employment in the other world. how much do mr. wessington give her men. what be their hour. where do they go. 
and for visible answer to my last question i saw the infernal thing block my path in the twilight. the dead travel fast and by short cut unknown to ordinary cooly. i laugh aloud a second time and check my laughter suddenly for i be afraid i be go mad. mad to a certain extent i must have be for i recollect that i rein in my horse at the head of the rickshaw and politely wish mr. wessington good even her answer be one i know only too well. i listen to the end. and reply that i have hear it all before but should be delight if she have anything further to say. some malignant devil strong than i must have enter into me that even for i have a dim recollection of talk the commonplace of the day for five minute to the thing in front of me. 
mad a a hatter poor devil or drink. max try and get him to come home. 
surely that be not mr. wessington s voice. the two men have overhear me speak to the empty air and have return to look after me. they be very kind and considerate and from their word evidently gather that i be extremely drink i thank them confusedly and canter away to my hotel there change and arrive at the mannerings ten minute late. i plead the darkness of the night a an excuse. be rebuke by kitty for my unlover like tardiness. and sit down. 
the conversation have already become general. and under cover of it i be address some tender small talk to my sweetheart when i be aware that at the further end of the table a short red whisker man be describe with much embroidery his encounter with a mad unknown that even. 
a few sentence convince me that he be repeat the incident of half an hour ago. in the middle of the story he look round for applause a professional story teller do catch my eye and straightway collapse. there be a moment s awkward silence and the red whisker man mutter something to the effect that he have forget the rest thereby sacrifice a reputation a a good story teller which he have build up for six season past. i bless him from the bottom of my heart and go on with my fish. 
in the fulness of time that dinner come to an end. and with genuine regret i tear myself away from kitty a certain a i be of my own existence that it would be wait for me outside the door. the red whisker man who have be introduce to me a doctor heatherlegh of simla volunteer to bear me company a far a our road lay together. i accept his offer with gratitude. 
my instinct have not deceive me. it lay in readiness in the mall and in what seem devilish mockery of our way with a light headlamp. the red whisker man go to the point at once in a manner that show he have be think over it all dinner time. 
i say pansay what the deuce be the matter with you this even on the elysium road. the suddenness of the question wrench an answer from me before i be aware. 
that. say i point to it. 
_that may be either d. t. or eye for aught i know. now you don t liquor. i saw a much at dinner so it can t be d. t. there s nothing whatever where you re point though you re sweat and tremble with fright like a scar pony. therefore i conclude that it s eye. and i ought to understand all about them. come along home with me. i m on the blessington low road. 
to my intense delight the rickshaw instead of wait for u keep about twenty yard ahead and this too whether we walk trot or canter. in the course of that long night ride i have tell my companion almost a much a i have tell you here. 
well you ve spoil one of the best tale i ve ever lay tongue to say he but i ll forgive you for the sake of what you ve go through. now come home and do what i tell you. and when i ve cure you young man let this be a lesson to you to steer clear of woman and indigestible food till the day of your death. 
the rickshaw keep steady in front. and my red whisker friend seem to derive great pleasure from my account of it exact whereabouts. 
eye pansay all eye brain and stomach. and the great of these three be stomach. you ve too much conceited brain too little stomach and thoroughly unhealthy eye. get your stomach straight and the rest follow. and all that s french for a liver pill. i ll take sole medical charge of you from this hour. for you re too interest a phenomenon to be pass over. 
by this time we be deep in the shadow of the blessington low road and the rickshaw come to a dead stop under a pine clothe overhang shale cliff. instinctively i halt too give my reason. heatherlegh rap out an oath. 
now if you think i m go to spend a cold night on the hillside for the sake of a stomach cum brain cum eye illusion. lord ha mercy. what s that. 
there be a muffle report a blind smother of dust just in front of u a crack the noise of rent bough and about ten yard of the cliff side pine undergrowth and all slide down into the road below completely block it up. the uproot tree sway and totter for a moment like drunken giant in the gloom and then fell prone among their fellow with a thunderous crash. our two horse stand motionless and sweat with fear. a soon a the rattle of fall earth and stone have subside my companion mutter. man if we d go forward we should have be ten foot deep in our graf by now. there be more thing in heaven and earth. come home pansay and thank god. i want a peg badly. 
we retrace our way over the church ridge and i arrive at dr. heatherlegh s house shortly after midnight. 
his attempt toward my cure commence almost immediately and for a week i never leave his sight. many a time in the course of that week do i bless the good fortune which have throw me in contact with simla s best and kind doctor. day by day my spirit grow light and more equable. day by day too i become more and more incline to fall in with heatherlegh s spectral illusion theory implicate eye brain and stomach. i write to kitty tell her that a slight sprain cause by a fall from my horse keep me indoors for a few day. and that i should be recover before she have time to regret my absence. 
heatherlegh s treatment be simple to a degree. it consist of liver pill cold water bath and strong exercise take in the dusk or at early dawn for a he sagely observe. a man with a sprain ankle doesn t walk a dozen mile a day and your young woman might be wonder if she saw you. 
at the end of the week after much examination of pupil and pulse and strict injunction a to diet and pedestrianism heatherlegh dismiss me a brusquely a he have take charge of me. here be his part benediction. man i certify to your mental cure and that s a much a to say i ve cure most of your bodily ailment. now get your trap out of this a soon a you can. and be off to make love to miss kitty. 
i be endeavor to express my thank for his kindness. he cut me short. 
don t think i do this because i like you. i gather that you ve behave like a blackguard all through. but all the same you re a phenomenon and a queer a phenomenon a you be a blackguard. no. check me a second time not a rupee please. go out and see if you can find the eye brain and stomach business again. i ll give you a lakh for each time you see it. 
half an hour late i be in the mannerings draw room with kitty drink with the intoxication of present happiness and the foreknowledge that i should never more be trouble with it hideous presence. strong in the sense of my new find security i propose a ride at once. and by preference a canter round jakko. 
never have i felt so well so overladen with vitality and mere animal spirit a i do on the afternoon of the th of april. kitty be delight at the change in my appearance and compliment me on it in her delightfully frank and outspoken manner. we leave the mannerings house together laugh and talk and canter along the chota simla road a of old. 
i be in haste to reach the sanjowlie reservoir and there make my assurance doubly sure. the horse do their best but seem all too slow to my impatient mind kitty be astonish at my boisterousness. why jack. she cry at last you be behave like a child what be you do. 
we be just below the convent and from sheer wantonness i be make my waler plunge and curvet across the road a i tickle it with the loop of my rid whip. 
do. i answer. nothing dear. that s just it. if you d be do nothing for a week except lie up you d be a riotous a i. 
sing and murmur in your feastful mirth joy to feel yourself alive. lord over nature lord of the visible earth lord of the sens five. 
my quotation be hardly out of my lip before we have round the corner above the convent. and a few yard further on could see across to sanjowlie. in the centre of the level road stand the black and white livery the yellow panel rickshaw and mr. keith wessington. i pull up look rub my eye and i believe must have say something. the next thing i know be that i be lie face downward on the road with kitty kneel above me in tear. 
ha it go child. i gasp. kitty only weep more bitterly. 
ha what go jack dear. what doe it all mean. there must be a mistake somewhere jack. a hideous mistake. her last word bring me to my foot mad rave for the time be. 
yes there be a mistake somewhere i repeat a hideous mistake. come and look at it. 
i have an indistinct idea that i drag kitty by the wrist along the road up to where it stand and implore her for pity s sake to speak to it. to tell it that we be betroth. that neither death nor hell could break the tie between u. and kitty only know how much more to the same effect. now and again i appeal passionately to the terror in the rickshaw to bear witness to all i have say and to release me from a torture that be kill me. a i talk i suppose i must have tell kitty of my old relation with mr. wessington for i saw her listen intently with white face and blaze eye. 
thank you mr. pansay she say that s quite enough. syce ghora lao. 
the syces impassive a oriental always be have come up with the recapture horse. and a kitty spring into her saddle i catch hold of the bridle entreat her to hear me out and forgive. my answer be the cut of her rid whip across my face from mouth to eye and a word or two of farewell that even now i cannot write down. so i judge and judge rightly that kitty know all. and i stagger back to the side of the rickshaw. my face be cut and bleed and the blow of the rid whip have raise a livid blue wheal on it. i have no self respect. just then heatherlegh who must have be follow kitty and me at a distance canter up. 
doctor i say point to my face here s miss mannering s signature to my order of dismissal and. i ll thank you for that lakh a soon a convenient. 
heatherlegh s face even in my abject misery move me to laughter. 
i ll stake my professional reputation he begin. don t be a fool i whisper. i ve lose my life s happiness and you d good take me home. 
a i speak the rickshaw be go. then i lose all knowledge of what be pass. the crest of jakko seem to heave and roll like the crest of a cloud and fall in upon me. 
seven day late. on the th of may that be to say. i be aware that i be lie in heatherlegh s room a weak a a little child. heatherlegh be watch me intently from behind the paper on his write table. his first word be not encourage. but i be too far spend to be much move by them. 
here s miss kitty ha send back your letter. you correspond a good deal you young people. here s a packet that look like a ring and a cheerful sort of a note from mannering papa which i ve take the liberty of read and burn. the old gentleman s not please with you. 
and kitty. i ask dully. 
rather more draw than her father from what she say. by the same token you must have be let out any number of queer reminiscence just before i meet you. say that a man who would have behave to a woman a you do to mr. wessington ought to kill himself out of sheer pity for his kind. she s a hotheaded little virago your mash. will have it too that you be suffer from d. t. when that row on the jakko road turn up say she ll die before she ever speak to you again. 
i groan and turn over on the other side. 
now you ve get your choice my friend. this engagement ha to be break off. and the mannerings don t want to be too hard on you. be it break through d t. or epileptic fit. sorry i can t offer you a good exchange unless you d prefer hereditary insanity. say the word and i ll tell em it s fit. all simla know about that scene on the lady mile. come. i ll give you five minute to think over it. 
during those five minute i believe that i explore thoroughly the low circle of the inferno which it be permit man to tread on earth. and at the same time i myself be watch myself falter through the dark labyrinth of doubt misery and utter despair. i wonder a heatherlegh in his chair might have wonder which dreadful alternative i should adopt. presently i hear myself answer in a voice that i hardly recognize. 
they re confoundedly particular about morality in these part. give em fit heatherlegh and my love. now let me sleep a bite long. 
then my two self join and it be only i. half craze devil drive i. that toss in my bed trace step by step the history of the past month. 
but i be in simla i keep repeat to myself. i jack pansay be in simla and there be no ghost here. it s unreasonable of that woman to pretend there be. why couldn t agnes have leave me alone. i never do her any harm. it might just a well have be me a agnes. only i d never have come back on purpose to kill her. why can t i be leave alone leave alone and happy. 
it be high noon when i first awake. and the sun be low in the sky before i sleep sleep a the torture criminal sleep on his rack too wear to feel further pain. 
next day i could not leave my bed. heatherlegh tell me in the morning that he have receive an answer from mr. mannering and that thank to his. heatherlegh s. friendly office the story of my affliction have travel through the length and breadth of simla where i be on all side much pity. 
and that s rather more than you deserve he conclude pleasantly though the lord know you ve be go through a pretty severe mill. never mind. we ll cure you yet you perverse phenomenon. 
i decline firmly to be cure you ve be much too good to me already old man say i. but i don t think i need trouble you further. 
in my heart i know that nothing heatherlegh could do would lighten the burden that have be lay upon me. 
with that knowledge come also a sense of hopeless impotent rebellion against the unreasonableness of it all. there be score of men no good than i whose punishment have at least be reserve for another world. and i felt that it be bitterly cruelly unfair that i alone should have be single out for so hideous a fate. this mood would in time give place to another where it seem that the rickshaw and i be the only reality in a world of shadow. that kitty be a ghost. that mannering heatherlegh and all the other men and woman i know be all ghost. and the great grey hill themselves but vain shadow devise to torture me. from mood to mood i toss backward and forward for seven weary day. my body grow daily strong and strong until the bedroom look glass tell me that i have return to everyday life and be a other men once more. curiously enough my face show no sign of the struggle i have go through. it be pale indeed but a expressionless and commonplace a ever. i have expect some permanent alteration visible evidence of the disease that be eat me away. i find nothing. 
on the th of may i leave heatherlegh s house at eleven o clock in the morning. and the instinct of the bachelor drive me to the club. there i find that every man know my story a tell by heatherlegh and be in clumsy fashion abnormally kind and attentive. nevertheless i recognize that for the rest of my natural life i should be among but not of my fellow. and i envy very bitterly indeed the laugh cooly on the mall below. i lunch at the club and at four o clock wander aimlessly down the mall in the vague hope of meet kitty. close to the band stand the black and white livery join me. and i hear mr. wessington s old appeal at my side. i have be expect this ever since i come out. and be only surprise at her delay. the phantom rickshaw and i go side by side along the chota simla road in silence. close to the bazar kitty and a man on horseback overtake and pass u. for any sign she give i might have be a dog in the road. she do not even pay me the compliment of quicken her pace. though the rainy afternoon have serve for an excuse. 
so kitty and her companion and i and my ghostly light o love creep round jakko in couple. the road be stream with water. the pine drip like roof pipe on the rock below and the air be full of fine drive rain. two or three time i find myself say to myself almost aloud. i m jack pansay on leave at simla at simla. everyday ordinary simla. i mustn t forget that i mustn t forget that. then i would try to recollect some of the gossip i have hear at the club. the price of so and so s horse anything in fact that relate to the workaday anglo indian world i know so well. i even repeat the multiplication table rapidly to myself to make quite sure that i be not take leave of my sens. it give me much comfort. and must have prevent my hear mr. wessington for a time. 
once more i wearily climb the convent slope and enter the level road. here kitty and the man start off at a canter and i be leave alone with mr. wessington. agnes say i will you put back your hood and tell me what it all mean. the hood drop noiselessly and i be face to face with my dead and bury mistress. she be wear the dress in which i have last see her alive. carry the same tiny handkerchief in her right hand. and the same cardcase in her leave. a woman eight month dead with a cardcase. i have to pin myself down to the multiplication table and to set both hand on the stone parapet of the road to assure myself that that at least be real. 
agnes i repeat for pity s sake tell me what it all mean. mr. wessington lean forward with that odd quick turn of the head i use to know so well and speak. 
if my story have not already so madly overleap the bound of all human belief i should apologize to you now. a i know that no one no not even kitty for whom it be write a some sort of justification of my conduct will believe me i will go on. mr. wessington speak and i walk with her from the sanjowlie road to the turn below the commander in chief s house a i might walk by the side of any live woman s rickshaw deep in conversation. the second and most torment of my mood of sickness have suddenly lay hold upon me and like the prince in tennyson s poem i seem to move amid a world of ghost. there have be a garden party at the commander in chief s and we two join the crowd of homeward bind folk. a i saw them then it seem that they be the shadow impalpable fantastic shadow that divide for mr. wessington s rickshaw to pas through. what we say during the course of that weird interview i cannot indeed i dare not tell. heatherlegh s comment would have be a short laugh and a remark that i have be mash a brain eye and stomach chimera. it be a ghastly and yet in some indefinable way a marvelously dear experience. could it be possible i wonder that i be in this life to woo a second time the woman i have kill by my own neglect and cruelty. 
i meet kitty on the homeward road a shadow among shadow. 
if i be to describe all the incident of the next fortnight in their order my story would never come to an end. and your patience would be exhaust. morning after morning and even after even the ghostly rickshaw and i use to wander through simla together. wherever i go there the four black and white livery follow me and bore me company to and from my hotel. at the theatre i find them amid the crowd of yell jhampanies. outside the club veranda after a long even of whist. at the birthday ball wait patiently for my reappearance. and in broad daylight when i go call. save that it cast no shadow the rickshaw be in every respect a real to look upon a one of wood and iron. more than once indeed i have have to check myself from warn some hard rid friend against canter over it. more than once i have walk down the mall deep in conversation with mr. wessington to the unspeakable amazement of the passer by. 
before i have be out and about a week i learn that the fit theory have be discard in favor of insanity. however i make no change in my mode of life. i call ride and din out a freely a ever. i have a passion for the society of my kind which i have never felt before. i hunger to be among the reality of life. and at the same time i felt vaguely unhappy when i have be separate too long from my ghostly companion. it would be almost impossible to describe my vary mood from the th of may up to to day. 
the presence of the rickshaw fill me by turn with horror blind fear a dim sort of pleasure and utter despair. i dare not leave simla. and i know that my stay there be kill me. i know moreover that it be my destiny to die slowly and a little every day. my only anxiety be to get the penance over a quietly a might be. alternately i hunger for a sight of kitty and watch her outrageous flirtation with my successor to speak more accurately my successor with amuse interest. she be a much out of my life a i be out of hers. by day i wander with mr. wessington almost content. by night i implore heaven to let me return to the world a i use to know it. above all these vary mood lay the sensation of dull numb wonder that the see and the unseen should mingle so strangely on this earth to hound one poor soul to it grave. 
* * * * *. 
august. heatherlegh ha be indefatigable in his attendance on me. and only yesterday tell me that i ought to send in an application for sick leave. an application to escape the company of a phantom. a request that the government would graciously permit me to get rid of five ghost and an airy rickshaw by go to england. heatherlegh s proposition move me to almost hysterical laughter. i tell him that i should await the end quietly at simla. and i be sure that the end be not far off. believe me that i dread it advent more than any word can say. and i torture myself nightly with a thousand speculation a to the manner of my death. 
shall i die in my bed decently and a an english gentleman should die. or in one last walk on the mall will my soul be wrench from me to take it place forever and ever by the side of that ghastly phantasm. shall i return to my old lose allegiance in the next world or shall i meet agnes loathe her and bind to her side through all eternity. shall we two hover over the scene of our life till the end of time. a the day of my death draw near the intense horror that all live flesh feel toward escape spirit from beyond the grave grow more and more powerful. it be an awful thing to go down quick among the dead with scarcely one half of your life complete. it be a thousand time more awful to wait a i do in your midst for i know not what unimaginable terror. pity me at least on the score of my delusion for i know you will never believe what i have write here. yet a surely a ever a man be do to death by the power of darkness i be that man. 
in justice too pity her. for a surely a ever woman be kill by man i kill mr. wessington. and the last portion of my punishment be even now upon me. 
on the strength of a liken. 
if your mirror be break look into still water. but have a care that you do not fall in. hindu proverb. 
next to a requite attachment one of the most convenient thing that a young man can carry about with him at the begin of his career be an unrequited attachment. it make him feel important and business like and blas_ and cynical. and whenever he ha a touch of fever or suffer from want of exercise he can mourn over his lose love and be very happy in a tender twilight fashion. 
hannasyde s affair of the heart have be a godsend to him. it be four year old and the girl have long since give up think of it. she have marry and have many care of her own. in the begin she have tell hannasyde that while she could never be anything more than a sister to him she would always take the deep interest in his welfare. this startlingly new and original remark give hannasyde something to think over for two year. and his own vanity fill in the other twenty four month. hannasyde be quite different from phil garron but none the le have several point in common with that far too lucky man. 
he keep his unrequited attachment by him a men keep a well smoke pipe for comfort s sake and because it have grow dear in the use. it bring him happily through one simla season. hannasyde be not lovely. there be a crudity in his manner and a roughness in the way in which he help a lady on to her horse that do not attract the other sex to him. even if he have cast about for their favor which he do not. he keep his wound heart all to himself for a while. 
then trouble come to him. all who go to simla know the slope from the telegraph to the public work office. hannasyde be loaf up the hill one september morning between call hour when a rickshaw come down in a hurry and in the rickshaw sit the live breathe image of the girl who have make him so happily unhappy. hannasyde lean against the railing and gasp. he want to run downhill after the rickshaw but that be impossible. so he go forward with most of his blood in his temple. it be impossible for many reason that the woman in the rickshaw could be the girl he have know. she be he discover late the wife of a man from dindigul or coimbatore or some out of the way place and she have come up to simla early in the season for the good of her health. she be go back to dindigul or wherever it be at the end of the season. and in all likelihood would never return to simla again. her proper hill station be ootacamund. that night hannasyde raw and savage from the rake up of all old feeling take counsel with himself for one measure hour. what he decide upon be this. and you must decide for yourself how much genuine affection for the old love and how much a very natural inclination to go abroad and enjoy himself affect the decision. mr. landys haggert would never in all human likelihood cross his path again. so whatever he do didn t much matter. she be marvelously like the girl who take a deep interest and the rest of the formula. all thing consider it would be pleasant to make the acquaintance of mr. landys haggert and for a little time only a very little time to make believe that he be with alice chisane again. every one be more or le mad on one point. hannasyde s particular monomania be his old love alice chisane. 
he make it his business to get introduce to mr. haggert and the introduction prosper. he also make it his business to see a much a he could of that lady. when a man be in earnest a to interview the facility which simla offer be startle. there be garden party and tennis party and picnic and luncheon at annandale and rifle match and dinner and ball. besides ride and walk which be matter of private arrangement. hannasyde have start with the intention of see a liken and he end by do much more. he want to be deceive he mean to be deceive and he deceive himself very thoroughly. not only be the face and figure the face and figure of alice chisane but the voice and low tone be exactly the same and so be the turn of speech. and the little mannerism that every woman ha of gait and gesticulation be absolutely and identically the same. the turn of the head be the same. the tire look in the eye at the end of a long walk be the same. the stoop and wrench over the saddle to hold in a pull horse be the same. and once most marvelous of all mr. landys haggert sing to herself in the next room while hannasyde be wait to take her for a ride hum note for note with a throaty quiver of the voice in the second line poor wander one. exactly a alice chisane have hum it for hannasyde in the dusk of an english draw room. in the actual woman herself in the soul of her there be not the least liken. she and alice chisane be cast in different mould. but all that hannasyde want to know and see and think about be this madden and perplex liken of face and voice and manner. he be bend on make a fool of himself that way. and he be in no sort disappoint. 
open and obvious devotion from any sort of man be always pleasant to any sort of woman. but mr. landys haggert be a woman of the world could make nothing of hannasyde s admiration. 
he would take any amount of trouble he be a selfish man habitually to meet and forestall if possible her wish. anything she tell him to do be law. and he be there could be no doubt it fond of her company so long a she talk to him and keep on talk about triviality. but when she launch into expression of her personal view and her wrong those small social difference that make the spice of simla life hannasyde be neither please nor interest. he didn t want to know anything about mr. landys haggert or her experience in the past she have travel nearly all over the world and could talk cleverly he want the liken of alice chisane before his eye and her voice in his ear. anything outside that remind him of another personality jar and he show that it do. 
under the new post office one even mr. landys haggert turn on him and speak her mind shortly and without warn. mr. hannasyde say she will you be good enough to explain why you have appoint yourself my special cavalier servente. i don t understand it. but i be perfectly certain somehow or other that you don t care the least little bite in the world for me. this seem to support by the way the theory that no man can act or tell lie to a woman without be find out. hannasyde be take off his guard. his defence never be a strong one because he be always think of himself and he blurt out before he know what he be say this inexpedient answer no more i do. 
the queerness of the situation and the reply make mr. landys haggert laugh. then it all come out. and at the end of hannasyde s lucid explanation mr. haggert say with the least little touch of scorn in her voice so i m to act a the lay figure for you to hang the rag of your tattered affection on be i. 
hannasyde didn t see what answer be require and he devote himself generally and vaguely to the praise of alice chisane which be unsatisfactory. now it be to be thoroughly make clear that mr. haggert have not the shadow of a ghost of an interest in hannasyde. only. only no woman like be make love through instead of to specially on behalf of a musty divinity of four year stand. 
hannasyde do not see that he have make any very particular exhibition of himself. he be glad to find a sympathetic soul in the arid waste of simla. 
when the season end hannasyde go down to his own place and mr. haggert to hers it be like make love to a ghost say hannasyde to himself and it doesn t matter. and now i ll get to my work. but he find himself think steadily of the haggert chisane ghost. and he could not be certain whether it be haggert or chisane that make up the great part of the pretty phantom. 
* * * * *. 
he get understand a month late. 
a peculiar point of this peculiar country be the way in which a heartless government transfer men from one end of the empire to the other. you can never be sure of get rid of a friend or an enemy till he or she dy. there be a case once but that s another story. 
haggert s department order him up from dindigul to the frontier at two day notice and he go through lose money at every step from dindigul to his station. he drop mr. haggert at lucknow to stay with some friend there to take part in a big ball at the chutter munzil and to come on when he have make the new home a little comfortable. lucknow be hannasyde s station and mr. haggert stay a week there. hannasyde go to meet her. a the train come in he discover what he have be think of for the past month. the unwisdom of his conduct also strike him. the lucknow week with two dance and an unlimited quantity of ride together clinch matter. and hannasyde find himself pace this circle of think. he adore alice chisane at least he have adore her. and he admire mr. landys haggert because she be like alice chisane. but mr. landys haggert be not in the least like alice chisane be a thousand time more adorable. now alice chisane be the bride of another and so be mr. landys haggert and a good and honest wife too. therefore he hannasyde be. here he call himself several hard name and wish that he have be wise in the begin. 
whether mr. landys haggert saw what be go on in his mind she alone know. he seem to take an unqualified interest in everything connect with herself a distinguish from the alice chisane liken and he say one or two thing which if alice chisane have be still betroth to him could scarcely have be excuse even on the ground of the liken. but mr. haggert turn the remark aside and spend a long time in make hannasyde see what a comfort and a pleasure she have be to him because of her strange resemblance to his old love. hannasyde groan in his saddle and say yes indeed and busy himself with preparation for her departure to the frontier feel very small and miserable. 
the last day of her stay at lucknow come and hannasyde saw her off at the railway station. she be very grateful for his kindness and the trouble he have take and smile pleasantly and sympathetically a one who know the alice chisane reason of that kindness. and hannasyde abuse the cooly with the luggage and hustle the people on the platform and pray that the roof might fall in and slay him. 
a the train go out slowly mr. landys haggert lean out of the window to say good bye on second thought au revoir_ mr. hannasyde. i go home in the spring and perhaps i may meet you in town. 
hannasyde shake hand and say very earnestly and adoringly i hope to heaven i shall never see your face again. 
and mr. haggert understand. 
private learoyd s story. 
and he tell a tale. chronicle of gautama buddha. 
far from the haunt of company officer who insist upon kit inspection far from keen nose sergeant who sniff the pipe stuff into the bed roll two mile from the tumult of the barrack lie the trap. it be an old dry well shadow by a twist pipal tree and fence with high grass. here in the year go by do private ortheris establish his dept and menagerie for such possession dead and live a could not safely be introduce to the barrack room. here be gather houdin pullet and fox terrier of undoubted pedigree and more than doubtful ownership for ortheris be an inveterate poacher and preminent among a regiment of neat hand dog stealer. 
never again will the long lazy evening return wherein ortheris whistle softly move surgeon wise among the captive of his craft at the bottom of the well. when learoyd sit in the niche give sage counsel on the management of tyke and mulvaney from the crook of the overhang pipal_ wave his enormous boot in benediction above our head delight u with tale of love and war and strange experience of city and men. 
ortheris land at last in the little stuff bird shop for which your soul long. learoyd back again in the smoky stone rib north amid the clang of the bradford loom. mulvaney grizzle tender and very wise ulysses swelter on the earthwork of a central india line judge if i have forget old day in the trap. 
orth ri a allus think he knaws more than other foaks say she wasn t a real laady but nobbut a hewrasian. i don t gainsay a her culler be a bite doosky like. but she be a laady. why she ride iv a carriage an good os too an her air be that oil a you could see your faice in it an she wear di mond ring an a goold chain an silk an satin dress a mun a cost a deal for it isn t a cheap shop a keep enough o one pattern to fit a figure like hers. her name be mr. desussa an t waay i coom to be acquaint wi her be along of our colonel s laady s dog rip. 
i ve see a vast o dog but rip be t pretty picter of a cliver fox tarrier at iv i set eye on. he could do owt you like but speeak an t colonel s laady set more store by him than if he hed be a christian. she hed bairn of her awn but they be i england and rip seem to get all t coodlin and pettin a belong to a bairn by good right. 
but rip be a bite on a rover an hed a habit o breakin out o barricks like and trottin round t plaice a if he be t cantonment magistrate coom round inspectin. the colonel leather him once or twice but rip didn t care an keep on gooin his round wi his taail a waggin a if he be flag signallin to t world at large at he be gettin on nicely thank yo and how s yo sen. an then t colonel a be noa sort of a hand wi a dog tee him oop. a real clipper of a dog an it s noa wonder yon laady mr. desussa should tek a fancy tiv him. theer s one o t ten commandment say yo maun t cuvvet your neebor s ox nor his jackass but it doesn t say nowt about his tarrier dog an happen thot s t reason why mr. desussa cuvveted rip tho she go to church reg lar along wi her husband who be so mich dark at if he hedn t such a good coaat tiv his back yo might ha call him a black man and nut tell a lee nawther. they say he addle his brass i jute an he d a rare lot on it. 
well you see when they tee rip up t poor awd lad didn t enjoy very good elth. so t colonel s laady send for me a ad a naame for bein knowledgeable about a dog an ax what s ailin wi him. 
why say i he s getten t mope an what he want be his libbaty an coompany like t rest on u. wal happen a rat or two ud liven him oop. it s low mum say i be rat but it s t nature of a dog. an soa s cuttin round an meetin another dog or two an passin t time o day an hevvin a bite of a turn up wi him like a christian. 
so she say her dog maun t niver fight an noa christian iv fight. 
then what s a soldier for. say i. an i explain to her t contrairy quality of a dog at when yo coom to think on t be one o t curusest thing a be. for they larn to behave theirsens like gentleman bear fit for t fost o coompany they tell me t widdy herself be fond of a good dog and knaws one when she see it a well a onny body. then on t other hand a tewin round after cat an gettin mix oop i all manner o blackguardly street row an killin rat an fightin like divils. 
t colonel s laady say. well learoyd i doan t agree wi you but you re right in a way o speeakin an i should like yo to tek rip out a walkin wi you sometimes. but yo maun t let him fight nor chase cat nor do nowt orrid. an them be her very wods. 
soa rip an me gooes out a walkin o evenin s he bein a dog a do credit tiv a man an i catch a lot o rat an we hed a bite of a match on in an awd dry swimmin bath at back o t cantonment an it be none so long afore he be a bright a a button again. he hed a way o flyin at them big yaller pariah dog a if he be a harrow offan a bow an though his weight be nowt he tuk em so suddint like they roll over like skittle in a halley an when they coot he stretch after em a if he be rabbit runnin. saame with cat when he cud get t cat agaate o runnin. 
one evenin him an me be trespassin ovver a compound wall after one of them mongoose at he d start an we be busy grubbin round a prickle bush an when we look up there be mr. desussa wi a parasel ovver her shoulder a watchin u. oh my. she sing out. there s that lovelee dog. would he let me stroke him mister soldier. 
ay he would mum sez i for he s fond o laady s coompany. coom here rip an speeak to this kind laady. an rip seein at t mongoose hed getten clean awaay cooms up like t gentleman he be nivver a hauporth shy or okkord. 
oh you beautiful you prettee dog. she say clippin an chantin her speech in a way them sooart ha o their awn. i would like a dog like you. you be so verree lovelee so awfullee prettee an all thot sort o talk at a dog o sense mebbe think nowt on tho he bid it by reason o his breedin. 
an then i mek him joomp ovver my swagger cane an shek hand an beg an lie dead an a lot o them trick a laadies teeaches dog though i doan t haud with it mysen for it s makin a fool o a good dog to do such like. 
an at lung length it cooms out at she d be thrawin sheep s eye a t sayin be at rip for many a day. yo see her childer be grow up an she d nowt mich to do an be allus fond of a dog. soa she ax me if i d tek somethin to dhrink. an we go into t draw room wheer her usband be a settin. they mek a gurt fuss ovver t dog an i ha a bottle o aale an he give me a handful o cigar. 
soa i coomed away but t awd lass sing out oh mister soldier please coom again and bring that prettee dog. 
i didn t let on to t colonel s laady about mr. desussa and rip he say nowt nawther an i gooes again an ivry time there be a good dhrink an a handful o good smooaks. an i tell t awd lass a heeap more about rip than i d ever heeared. how he tuk t lose prize at lunnon dog show and cost thotty three pound fower shillin from t man a breed him. at his own brother be t propputty o t prince o wail an at he have a pedigree a long a a dook s. an she lap it all oop an be niver tire o admirin him. but when t awd lass take to givin me money an i seed at she be gettin fair fond about t dog i begin to suspicion summat. onny body may give a soldier t price of a pint in a friendly way an theer s no arm do but when it cooms to five rupee slipt into your hand sly like why it s what t lectioneerin fellow call bribery an corruption. specially when mr. desussa threwed hint how t cold weather would soon be ovver an she be goin to munsooree pahar an we be goin to rawalpindi an she would niver see rip any more onless somebody she know on would be kind tiv her. 
soa i tell mulvaney an ortheris all t taale thro beginnin to end. 
ti larceny that wicked ould laady mane say t irishman ti felony she be sejuicin ye into my frind learoyd but i ll purtect your innocince. i ll save ye from the wicked wile av that wealthy ould woman an i ll go wid ye this evenin and spake to her the wurrds av truth an honesty. but jock say he waggin his heead twas not like ye to kape all that good dhrink an thim fine cigar to yerself while orth ri here an me have be prowlin round wid throat a dry a lime kiln and nothin to smoke but canteen plug. twas a dhirty thrick to play on a comrade for why should you learoyd be balancin yourself on the butt av a satin chair a if terence mulvaney be not the aquil av anybody who thrades in jute. 
let alone me stick in orth ri but that s like life. them wot s really fit to decorate society get no show while a blunderin yorkshireman like you. 
nay say i it s none o t blunderin yorkshireman she want. it s rip. he s t gentleman this journey. 
soa t next day mulvaney an rip an me go to mr. desussa s an t irishman bein a strainger she wor a bite shy at fost. but yo ve heeard mulvaney talk an yo may believe a he fairly bewitch t awd lass wal she let out at she want to tek rip away wi her to munsooree pahar. then mulvaney change his tune an ax her solemn like if she d think o t consequence o gettin two poor but honest soldier send t andamning island. mr. desussa begin to cry so mulvaney turn round oppen t other tack and smooth her down allowin at rip ud be a vast good off in t hill than down i bengal and twas a pity he shouldn t go wheer he be so well beliked. and soa he go on backin an fillin an workin up t awd lass wal she fell a if her life warn t worth nowt if she didn t hev t dog. 
then all of a suddint he say. but ye shall have him marm for i ve a feelin heart not like this could blood yorkshireman. but twill cost ye not a penny le than three hundher rupee. 
don t yo believe him mum say i. t colonel s laady wouldn t tek five hundred for him. 
who say she would. say mulvaney. it s not buyin him i mane but for the sake o this kind good laady i ll do what i never dream to do in my life. i ll stale him. 
don t say steal say mr. desussa. he shall have the happy home. dog often get lose you know and then they stray an he like me and i like him a i niver like a dog yet an i must hev him. if i get him at t last minute i could carry him off to munsooree pahar and nobody would niver knaw. 
now an again mulvaney look acrost at me an though i could mak nowt o what he be after i conclude to take his leead. 
well mum i say i never thowt to coom down to dog steealin but if my comrade see how it could be do to oblige a laady like yo sen i m nut t man to hod back tho it s a bad business i m thinkin an three hundred rupee be a poor set off again t chance of them damn island a mulvaney talk on. 
i ll mek it three fifty say mr. desussa. only let me hev t dog. 
so we let her persuade u an she teks rip s measure theer an then an send to hamilton s to order a silver collar again t time when he be to be her awn which be to be t day she set off for munsooree pahar. 
sitha mulvaney say i when we be outside you re niver goin to let her hev rip. 
an would ye disappoint a poor old woman. say he. she shall have a rip. 
an wheer s he to come through. say i. 
learoyd my man he sing out you re a pretty man av your inch an a good comrade but your head be make av duff. isn t our friend orth ri a taxidermist an a rale artist wid his nimble white finger. an what s a taxidermist but a man who can thrate shkins. do ye mind the white dog that belong to the canteen sargint bad ce to him he that s lose half his time an snarlin the rest. he shall be lose for good now. an do ye mind that he s the very spit in shape an size av the colonel s barrin that his tail be an inch too long an he ha none av the color that divarsifies the rale rip an his timper be that av his masther an bad. but fwhat be an inch on a dog s tail. an fwhat to a professional like orth ri be a few ringstraked shpots av black brown an white. nothin at all at all. 
then we meet orth ri an that little man bein sharp a a needle seed his way through t business in a minute. an he go to work a practicin air dye the very next day beginnin on some white rabbit he have an then he drored all rip s markin s on t back of a white commissariat bullock so a to get his and in an be sure of his color. shadin off brown into black a nateral a life. if rip hed a fault it be too mich markin but it be straingely reg lar an orth ri settle himself to make a fost rate job on it when he get haud o t canteen sargint s dog. theer niver be sich a dog a thot for bad temper an it do nut get no good when his tail hed to be fettle an inch an a half short. but they may talk o theer royal academy a they like. i niver seed a bite o animal paintin to beat t copy a orth ri make of rip s mark wal t picter itself be snarlin all t time an tryin to get at rip standin theer to be copy a good a goold. 
orth ri allus hed a mich conceit on himsen a would lift a balloon an he wor so pleeased wi his sham rip he wor for tekking him to mr. desussa before she go away. but mulvaney an me stop thot knowin orth ri s work though niver so cliver be nobbut skin deep. 
an at last mr. desussa fix t day for startin to munsooree pahar. we be to tek rip to t stayshun i a basket an hand him ovver just when they be ready to start an then she d give u t brass a be agree upon. 
an my wod. it be high time she be off for them air dye upon t cur s back take a vast of paintin to keep t reet culler tho orth ri spend a matter o seven rupee six anna i t best drooggist shop i calcutta. 
an t canteen sargint be lookin for be dog everywheer. an wi bein tie up t beast s timper get waur nor ever. 
it wor i t evenin when t train start thro howrah an we elped mr. desussa wi about sixty box an then we give her t basket. orth ri for pride av his work ax u to let him coom along wi u an he couldn t help liftin t lid an showin t cur a he lay coil oop. 
oh. say t awd lass. the beautee. how sweet he look. an just then t beauty snarl an show his teeth so mulvaney shut down t lid and say. ye ll be careful marm whin ye tek him out. he s disaccustomed to travel by t railway an he ll be sure to want his rale mistress an his friend learoyd so ye ll make allowance for his feeling at fost. 
she would do all thot an more for the dear good rip an she would nut oppen t basket till they be mile away for fear anybody should recognize him an we be real good and kind soldier men we be an she honds me a bundle o note an then cooms up a few of her relation an friend to say good bye not more than seventy five there wasn t an we cut away. 
what coom to t three hundred and fifty rupee. thot s what i can scarcelins tell yo but we melt it we melt it. it be share an share alike for mulvaney say. if learoyd get hold of mr. desussa first sure twas i that remimbered the sargint s dog just in the nick av time an orth ri be the artist av janius that make a work av art out av that ugly piece av ill nature. yet by way av a thank offerin that i be not lead into felony by that wicked ould woman i ll send a thrifle to father victor for the poor people he s always beggin for. 
but me an orth ri he bein cockney an i bein pretty far north do nut see it i t saame way. we d getten t brass an we mean to keep it. an soa we do for a short time. 
noa noa we niver heeard a wod more o t awd lass. our rig mint go to pindi an t canteen sargint he get himself another tyke insteead o t one at get lose so reg lar an be lose for good at last. 
wressley of the foreign office. 
i close and draw for my love s sake that now be false to me and i slew the riever of tarrant moss and set dumeny free. 
and ever they give me praise and gold and ever i moan my loss. for i strike the blow for my false love s sake and not for the men of the moss. 
tarrant moss. 
one of the many curse of our life in india be the want of atmosphere in the painter s sense. there be no half tint worth notice. men stand out all crude and raw with nothing to tone them down and nothing to scale them against. they do their work and grow to think that there be nothing but their work and nothing like their work and that they be the real pivot on which the administration turn. here be an instance of this feel. a half caste clerk be rule form in a pay office. he say to me do you know what would happen if i add or take away one single line on this sheet. then with the air of a conspirator it would disorganize the whole of the treasury payment throughout the whole of the presidency circle. think of that. 
if men have not this delusion a to the ultra importance of their own particular employment i suppose that they would sit down and kill themselves. but their weakness be wearisome particularly when the listener know that he himself commit exactly the same sin. 
even the secretariat belief that it doe good when it ask an over drive executive officer to take a census of wheat weevil through a district of five thousand square mile. 
there be a man once in the foreign office a man who have grow middle age in the department and be commonly say by irreverent junior to be able to repeat aitchison s treaty and sunnuds backward in his sleep. what he do with his store knowledge only the secretary know. and he naturally would not publish the news abroad. this man s name be wressley and it be the shibboleth in those day to say wressley know more about the central indian state than any live man. if you do not say this you be consider one of mean understand. 
nowadays the man who say that he know the ravel of the inter tribal complication across the border be more of use. but in wressley s time much attention be pay to the central indian state. they be call focus and factor and all manner of impose name. 
and here the curse of anglo indian life fell heavily. when wressley lift up his voice and speak about such and such a succession to such and such a throne the foreign office be silent and head of department repeat the last two or three word of wressley s sentence and tack yes yes on to them and know that they be assist the empire to grapple with serious political contingency. in most big undertaking one or two men do the work while the rest sit near and talk till the ripe decoration begin to fall. 
wressley be the work member of the foreign office firm and to keep him up to his duty when he show sign of flag he be make much of by his superior and tell what a fine fellow he be. he do not require coax because he be of tough build but what he receive confirm him in the belief that there be no one quite so absolutely and imperatively necessary to the stability of india a wressley of the foreign office. there might be other good men but the know honor and trust man among men be wressley of the foreign office. we have a viceroy in those day who know exactly when to gentle a fractious big man and to hearten up a collar gall little one and so keep all his team level. he convey to wressley the impression which i have just set down. and even tough men be apt to be disorganize by a viceroy s praise. there be a case once but that be another story. 
all india know wressley s name and office it be in thacker and spink s directory but who he be personally or what he do or what his special merit be not fifty men know or care. his work fill all his time and he find no leisure to cultivate acquaintance beyond those of dead rajput chief with ahir blot in their scutcheon. wressley would have make a very good clerk in the herald s college have he not be a bengal civilian. 
upon a day between office and office great trouble come to wressley overwhelm him knock him down and leave him gasp a though he have be a little schoolboy. without reason against prudence and at a moment s notice he fell in love with a frivolous golden haired girl who use to tear about simla mall on a high rough waler with a blue velvet jockey cap cram over her eye. her name be venner tillie venner and she be delightful. she take wressley s heart at a hand gallop and wressley find that it be not good for man to live alone. even with half the foreign office record in his press. 
then simla laugh for wressley in love be slightly ridiculous. he do his best to interest the girl in himself that be to say his work and she after the manner of woman do her best to appear interest in what behind his back she call mr. wressley s wajahs. for she lisp very prettily. she do not understand one little thing about them but she act a if she do. men have marry on that sort of error before now. 
providence however have care of wressley he be immensely strike with miss venner s intelligence. he would have be more impress have he hear her private and confidential account of his call. he hold peculiar notion a to the woo of girl. he say that the best work of a man s career should be lay reverently at their foot. ruskin write something like this somewhere i think. but in ordinary life a few kiss be good and save time. 
about a month after he have lose his heart to miss venner and have be do his work vilely in consequence the first idea of his native rule in central india strike wressley and fill him with joy. it be a he sketch it a great thing the work of his life a really comprehensive survey of a most fascinate subject to be write with all the special and laboriously acquire knowledge of wressley of the foreign office a gift fit for an empress. 
he tell miss venner that he be go to take leave and hop on his return to bring her a present worthy of her acceptance. would she wait. certainly she would. wressley draw seventeen hundred rupee a month. she would wait a year for that. her mamma would help her to wait. 
so wressley take one year s leave and all the available document about a truck load that he could lay hand on and go down to central india with his notion hot in his head. he begin his book in the land he be write of. too much official correspondence have make him a frigid workman and he must have guess that he need the white light of local color on his palette. this be a dangerous paint for amateur to play with. 
heaven how that man work. he catch his rajah analyze his rajah and trace them up into the mist of time and beyond with their queen and their concubine. he date and cross date pedigreed and triple pedigreed compare note connote weave string sort select infer calendar and counter calendar for ten hour a day. and because this sudden and new light of love be upon him he turn those dry bone of history and dirty record of misdeed into thing to weep or to laugh over a he please. his heart and soul be at the end of his pen and they get into the ink. he be dower with sympathy insight humor and style for two hundred and thirty day and night. and his book be a book. he have his vast special knowledge with him so to speak. but the spirit the weave in human touch the poetry and the power of the output be beyond all special knowledge. but i doubt whether he know the gift that be in him then and thus he may have lose some happiness. he be toil for tillie venner not for himself. men often do their best work blind for some one else s sake. 
also though this ha nothing to do with the story in india where every one know every one else you can watch men be drive by the woman who govern them out of the rank and file and send to take up point alone. a good man once start go forward. but an average man so soon a the woman lose interest in his success a a tribute to her power come back to the battalion and be no more hear of. 
wressley bore the first copy of his book to simla and blush and stammer present it to miss venner. she read a little of it. i give her review verbatim oh your book. it s all about those howwid wajahs. i didn t understand it. 
* * * * *. 
wressley of the foreign office be break smash i be not exaggerate by this one frivolous little girl. all that he could say feebly be but but it s my magnum opus. the work of my life. miss venner do not know what magnum opus mean. but she know that captain kerrington have win three race at the last gymkhana. wressley didn t press her to wait for him any long. he have sense enough for that. 
then come the reaction after the year s strain and wressley go back to the foreign office and his wajahs a compile gazetteering report write hack who would have be dear at three hundred rupee a month. he abide by miss venner s review. which prof that the inspiration in the book be purely temporary and unconnected with himself. nevertheless he have no right to sink in a hill tarn five pack case bring up at enormous expense from bombay of the best book of indian history ever write. 
when he sell off before retire some year late i be turn over his shelf and come across the only exist copy of native rule in central india the copy that miss venner could not understand. i read it sit on his mule trunk a long a the light last and offer him his own price for it. he look over my shoulder for a few page and say to himself drearily. 
now how in the world do i come to write such damn good stuff a that. 
then to me. 
take it and keep it. write one of your penny farthing yarn about it birth. perhaps perhaps the whole business may have be ordain to that end. 
which know what wressley of the foreign office be once strike me a about the bitter thing that i have ever hear a man say of his own work. 
the solid muldoon. 
do ye see john malone wid his shinin brand new hat. do ye see how he walk like a grand aristocrat. there be flag an banner wavin high an dhress and shtyle be show but the best av all the company be misther john malone. 
john malone. 
there have be a royal dog fight in the ravine at the back of the rifle butt between learoyd s jock and ortheris s blue rot both mongrel rampur hound chiefly rib and teeth. it last for twenty happy howl minute and then blue rot collapse and ortheris pay learoyd three rupee and we be all very thirsty. a dog fight be a most heat entertainment quite apart from the shout because rampurs fight over a couple of acre of grind. late when the sound of belt badge click against the neck of beer bottle have die away conversation drift from dog to man fight of all kind. human resemble red deer in some respect. any talk of fight seem to wake up a sort of imp in their breast and they bell one to the other exactly like challenge buck. this be noticeable even in men who consider themselves superior to private of the line. it show the refine influence of civilization and the march of progress. 
tale provoke tale and each tale more beer. even dreamy learoyd s eye begin to brighten and he unburden himself of a long history in which a trip to malham cove a girl at pateley brigg a ganger himself and a pair of clog be mix in drawl tangle. 
an so ah coot s yead oppen from t chin to t hair an he be abed for t matter o a month conclude learoyd pensively. 
mulvaney come out of a revery he be lie down and flourish his heel in the air. you re a man learoyd say he critically but you ve only fight wid men an that s an ivry day expayrience. but i ve stud up to a ghost an that be not an ivry day expayrience. 
no. say ortheris throw a cork at him. you git up an address the ouse you an yer expayriences. be it a big one nor usual. 
twas the livin trut. answer mulvaney stretch out a huge arm and catch ortheris by the collar. now where be ye me son. will ye take the wurrud av the lorrd out av my mouth another time. he shake him to emphasize the question. 
no somethin else though say ortheris make a dash at mulvaney s pipe capture it and hold it at arm s length. i ll chuck it acrost the ditch if you don t let me go. 
you maraudin hathen. ti the only cutty i iv love. handle her tinder or i ll chuck you acrost the nullah. if that poipe be bruk ah. give her back to me sorr. 
ortheris have pass the treasure to my hand. it be an absolutely perfect clay a shiny a the black ball at pool. i take it reverently but i be firm. 
will you tell u about the ghost fight if i do. i say. 
be ut the shtory that s troublin you. av course i will. i mint to all along. i be only gettin at ut my own way a popp doggle say whin they find him thrying to ram a cartridge down the muzzle. orth ri fall away. 
he release the little londoner take back his pipe fill it and his eye twinkle. he ha the most eloquent eye of any one that i know. 
do i iv tell you he begin that i be wanst the divil of a man. 
you do say learoyd with a childish gravity that make ortheris yell with laughter for mulvaney be always impress upon u his great merit in the old day. 
do i iv tell you mulvaney continue calmly that i be wanst more av a divil than i be now. 
m ria. you don t mean it. say ortheris. 
whin i be corp ril i be rejuced aftherward but a i say whin i be corp ril i be a divil of a man. 
he be silent for nearly a minute while his mind rummage among old memory and his eye glow. he bite upon the pipe stem and charge into his tale. 
eyah. they be great time i m ould now. me hide s wear off in patch. sinthrygo ha disconceited me an i m a marry man tu. but i ve have my day i ve have my day an nothin can take away the taste av that. oh my time past whin i put me fut through ivry livin wan av the tin commandmints between revelly and light out blow the froth off a pewter wipe me moustache wid the back av me hand an sleep on ut all a quiet a a little child. but ut s over ut s over an twill niver come back to me. not though i pray for a week av sunday. be there any wan in the ould rig mint to touch corp ril terence mulvaney whin that same be turn out for sedukshin. i niver meet him. ivry woman that be not a witch be worth the runnin afther in those day an ivry man be my dear frind or i have strip to him an we know which be the betther av the tu. 
whin i be corp ril i wud not ha change wid the colonel no nor yet the commandher in chief. i wud be a sargint. there be nothin i wud not be. mother av hivin look at me. fwhat be i now. 
we be quarter in a big cantonmint ti no manner av use namin name for ut might give the barricks disrepitation an i be the imperor av the earth to my own mind an wan or tu woman think the same. small blame to thim. afther we have lie there a year bragin the color sargint av e comp ny wint an take a wife that be lady s maid to some big lady in the station. she s dead now be annie bragin die in child bed at kirpa tal or ut may ha be almorah seven nine year go an bragin he marry agin. but she be a pretty woman whin bragin inthrojuced her to cantonmint society. she have eye like the brown av a buttherfly s wing whin the sun catch ut an a waist no thick than my arm an a little sof button av a mouth i would ha go through all asia bristlin wid bay nit to get the kiss av. an her hair be a long a the tail av the colonel s charger forgive me mentionin that blunderin baste in the same mouthful with annie bragin but twas all shpun gold an time be when ut be more than di monds to me. there be niver pretty woman yet an i ve have thruck wid a few cud open the door to annie bragin. 
twas in the cath lic chapel i saw her first me oi roil round a usual to see fwhat be to be see you re too good for bragin my love think i to mesilf but that s a mistake i can put straight or my name be not terence mulvaney. 
now take my wurrd for ut you orth ri there an learoyd an kape out av the marry quarter a i do not. no good iv come av ut an there s always the chance av your bein find wid your face in the dirt a long picket in the back av your head an your hand play the fife on the tread av another man s doorstep. 
twas so we find o hara he that rafferty kill six year go when he wint to his death wid his hair oil whistlin larry o rourke betune his teeth. kape out av the marry quarter i say a i do not ti onwholesim ti dangerous an ti ivrything else that s bad but o my sowl ti swate while ut last. 
i be always hangin about there whin i be off duty an bragin wasn t but niver a sweet word beyon ordinar do i get from annie bragin. ti the pervarsity av the sect sez i to mesilf an give my cap another cock on my head an straighten my back twas the back av a dhrum major in those day an wint off a tho i do not care wid all the woman in the marry quarter laughin. i be pershuaded most bhoys are_ i m thinkin that no woman bear av woman cud stand against me av i hild up my little finger. i have reason fer thinkin that way till i meet annie bragin. 
time an agin whin i be blandandherin in the dusk a man wud go past me a quiet a a cat. that s quare think i for i be or i should be the only man in these part. now what divilment can annie be up to. thin i call myself a blayguard for thinkin such thing. but i think thim all the same. an that mark you be the way av a man. 
wan evenin i say. mr. bragin manin no disrespect to you who be that corp ril man i have see the stripe though i cud niver get sight av his face who be that corp ril man that come in always whin i m goin away. 
mother av god. sez she turnin a white a my belt. have you see him too. 
see him. sez i. av coorse i have. do ye want me not to see him for we be standin talkin in the dhark outside the veranda av bragin s quarter you d betther tell me to shut me eye. onless i m mistake he s come now. 
an sure enough the corp ril man be walkin to u hangin his head down a though he be ashamed av himsilf. 
good night mr. bragin sez i very cool. ti not for me to interfere wid your a moor. but you might manage some thing wid more dacincy. i m off to canteen i sez. 
i turn on my heel an wint away swearin i wud give that man a dhressin that wud shtop him messin about the marry quarter for a month an a week. i have not tuk ten pace before annie bragin be hangin on to my arm an i cud feel that she be shakin all over. 
stay wid me mister mulvaney sez she. you re flesh an blood at the least be ye not. 
i m all that sez i an my anger wint away in a flash. will i want to be ask twice annie. 
wid that i slip my arm round her waist for begad i fancy she have surrindered at discretion an the honor av war be mine. 
fwhat nonsinse be this. sez she dhrawin hersilf up on the tip av her dear little toe. wid the mother s milk not dhry on your impident mouth. let go. she sez. 
do ye not say just now that i be flesh and blood. sez i. i have not change since i sez. an i kep my arm where ut be. 
your arm to yoursilf. sez she an her eye sparkild. 
sure ti only human nature sez i an i kep my arm where ut be. 
nature or no nature sez she you take your arm away or i ll tell bragin an he ll alter the nature av your head. fwhat d you take me for. she sez. 
a woman sez i. the pretty in barricks. 
a wife_ sez she. the straight in cantonmints. 
wid that i drop my arm fell back tu pace an salute for i saw that she mint fwhat she say. 
then you know something that some men would give a good deal to be certain of. how could you tell. i demand in the interest of science. 
watch the hand say mulvaney. av she shut her hand tight thumb down over the knuckle take up your hat an go. you ll only make a fool av yoursilf av you shtay. but av the hand lie opin on the lap or av you see her thryin to shut ut an she can t go on. she s not past reasonin wid. 
well a i be sayin i fell back salute an be goin away. 
shtay wid me she sez. look. he s comin again. 
she point to the veranda an by the hoight av impart nince the corp ril man be comin out av bragin s quarter. 
he s do that these five evenin s past sez annie bragin. oh fwhat will i do. 
he ll not do ut again sez i for i be fightin mad. 
kape way from a man that ha be a thrifle cross in love till the fever s die down. he rage like a brute beast. 
i wint up to the man in the veranda manin a sure a i sit to knock the life out av him. he slip into the open. fwhat be you doin philanderin about here ye scum av the gutter. sez i polite to give him his warnin for i want him ready. 
he niver lift his head but sez all mournful an melancolius a if he think i wud be sorry for him. i can t find her sez he. 
my troth sez i you ve live too long you an your seekin s an findin s in a dacint marry woman s quarter. hould up your head ye freeze thief av genesis sez i an you ll find all you want an more. 
but he niver hild up an i let go from the shoulder to where the hair be short over the eyebrow. 
that ll do your business sez i but it nearly do mine instid. i put my bodyweight behind the blow but i hit nothing at all an near put my shoulther out. the corp ril man be not there an annie bragin who have be watchin from the veranda throw up her heel an carry on like a cock whin his neck s wring by the dhrummer bhoy. i wint back to her for a livin woman an a woman like annie bragin be more than a p rade groun full av ghost. i d never see a woman faint before an i stud like a shtuck calf askin her whether she be dead an prayin her for the love av me an the love av her husband an the love av the virgin to opin her bless eye again an callin mesilf all the name undher the canopy av hivin for plaguin her wid my miserable a moor whin i ought to ha stud betune her an this corp ril man that have lose the number av his mess. 
i misremimber fwhat nonsinse i say but i be not so far go that i cud not hear a fut on the dirt outside. twas bragin comin in an by the same token annie be comin to. i jump to the far end av the veranda an look a if butter wudn t melt in my mouth. but mr. quinn the quarter master s wife that be have tould bragin about my hangin round annie. 
i m not please wid you mulvaney sez bragin unbucklin his sword for he have be on duty. 
that s bad hearin i sez an i know that the picket be dhriven in. what for sargint. sez i. 
come outside sez he an i ll show you why. 
i m willin i sez. but my stripe be none so ould that i can afford to lose thim. tell me now who do i go out wid. sez i. 
he be a quick man an a just an saw fwhat i wud be afther. wid mr. bragin s husband sez he. he might ha know by me askin that favor that i have do him no wrong. 
we wint to the back av the arsenal an i strip to him an for ten minute twas all i cud do to prevent him killin himself against my fistes. he be mad a a dumb dog just froth wid rage. but he have no chanst wid me in reach or learnin or anything else. 
will ye hear reason. sez i whin his first wind be run out. 
not whoile i can see sez he. wid that i give him both one after the other smash through the low gyard that he d be teach whin he be a boy an the eyebrow shut down on the cheek bone like the wing av a sick crow. 
will you hear reason now ye brave man. sez i. 
not whoile i can speak sez he staggerin up blind a a stump. i be loath to do ut but i wint round an swing into the jaw side on an shift ut a half pace to the lef. 
will ye hear reason now. sez i. i can t keep my timper much long an ti like i will hurt you. 
not whoile i can stand he mumble out av one corner av his mouth. so i close an throw him blind dumb an sick an jam the jaw straight. 
you re an ould fool mister bragin sez i. 
you re a young thief sez he an you ve bruk my heart you an annie betune you. 
thin he begin cryin like a child a he lay. i be sorry a i have niver be before. ti an awful thing to see a strong man cry. 
i ll swear on the cross. sez i. 
i care for none av your oath sez he. 
come back to your quarter sez i an if you don t believe the livin begad you shall listen to the dead i sez. 
i hoist him an tuk him back to his quarter. mr. bragin sez i here s a man that you can cure quick than me. 
you ve sham me before my wife he whimper. 
have i so. sez i. by the look on mr. bragin s face i think i m for a dhressin down bad than i give you. 
an i be. annie bragin be woild wid indignation. there be not a name that a dacint woman cud use that be not give my way. i ve have my colonel walk roun me like a cooper roun a cask for fifteen minute in ord ly room bekaze i wint into the corner shop an unstrapped lewnatic. but all that i iv tuk from his rasp av a tongue be ginger pop to fwhat annie tould me an that mark you be the way av a woman. 
whin ut be do for want av breath an annie be bendin over her husband i sez. ti all thrue an i m a blayguard an you re an honest woman. but will you tell him of wan service that i do you. 
a i finish speakin the corp ril man come up to the veranda an annie bragin shquealed. the moon be up an we cud see his face. 
i can t find her sez the corp ril man an wint out like the puff av a candle. 
saint stand betune u an evil. sez bragin crossin himself. that s flahy av the tyrone. 
who be he. i sez for he ha give me a dale av fightin this day. 
bragin tould u that flahy be a corp ril who lose his wife av cholera in those quarter three year go an wint mad an walk afther they bury him huntin for her. 
well sez i to bragin he s be hookin out av purgathory to kape company wid mr. bragin ivry evenin for the last fortnight. you may tell mr. quinn wid my love for i know that she s be talkin to you an you ve be listenin that she ought to ondherstand the differ twixt a man an a ghost. she s have three husband sez i an you_ ve get a wife too good for you. instid av which you lave her to be boddered by ghost an an all manner av evil spirruts. i ll niver go talkin in the way av politeness to a man s wife again. good night to you both sez i. an wid that i wint away havin fight wid woman man and divil all in the heart av an hour. by the same token i give father victor wan rupee to say a mass for flahy s soul me havin discommode him by shticking my fist into his systim. 
your idea of politeness seem rather large mulvaney i say. 
that s a you look at ut say mulvaney calmly. annie bragin niver care for me. for all that i do not want to leave anything behin me that bragin could take hould av to be angry wid her about whin an honust wurrd cud ha clear all up. there s nothing like opin speakin. orth ri ye scutt let me put me oi to that bottle for my throat s a dhry a whin i think i wud get a kiss from annie bragin. an that s fourteen year go. eyah. cork s own city an the blue sky above ut an the time that be the time that be. 
the three musketeer. 
an when the war begin we chase the bold afghan an we make the bloomin ghazi for to flee boy o. an we march into kabul an we tuk the balar issar an we teach em to respec the british soldier. barrack room ballad. 
mulvaney ortheris and learoyd be private in b company of a line regiment and personal friend of mine. collectively i think but be not certain they be the bad men in the regiment so far a genial blackguardism go. 
they tell me this story in the umballa refreshment room while we be wait for an up train. i supply the beer. the tale be cheap at a gallon and a half. 
all men know lord benira trig. he be a duke or an earl or something unofficial. also a peer. also a globe trotter. on all three count a ortheris say e didn t deserve no consideration. he be out in india for three month collect material for a book on our eastern impedimenta and quarter himself upon everybody like a cossack in even dress. 
his particular vice because he be a radical men say be have garrison turn out for his inspection. he would then dine with the officer command and insult him across the mess table about the appearance of the troop. that be benira s way. 
he turn out troop once too often. he come to helanthami cantonment on a tuesday. he wish to go shop in the bazar on wednesday and he desire the troop to be turn out on a thursday. on a thursday. the officer command could not well refuse. for benira be a lord. there be an indignation meet of subaltern in the mess room to call the colonel pet name. 
but the rale dimonstrashin say mulvaney be in b comp ny barrick. we three headin it. 
mulvaney climb on to the refreshment bar settle himself comfortably by the beer and go on whin the row be at ut s foinest an b comp ny be fur goin out to murther this man thrigg on the p rade groun learoyd here take up his helmut an sez fwhat be ut ye say. 
ah say say learoyd gie u t brass. tak oop a subscripshun lad for to put off t p rade an if t p rade s not put off ah ll gie t brass back agean. thot s wot ah say. all b coomp ny knawed me. ah take oop a big subscripshun fower rupee eight anna twas an ah go oot to turn t job over. mulvaney an orth ri coom with me. 
we three raise the divil in couple gin rally explain mulvaney. 
here ortheris interrupt. ave you read the paper. say he. 
sometimes i say. 
we ad read the paper an we put hup a fake decoity a a sedukshun. 
_ab_dukshin ye cockney say mulvaney. 
_ab_dukshin or se_dukshun no great odds. any ow we arrange to taik an put mister benhira out o the way till thursday be hover or e too busy to rux isself about p raid. hi be the man wot say we ll make a few rupee off o the business. 
we hild a council av war continue mulvaney walkin roun by the artill ry line. i be prisidint learoyd be minister av finance an little orth ri here be. 
a bloomin bismarck. hi make the ole show pay. 
this interferin bite av a benira man say mulvaney do the thrick for u himself. for on me sowl we hadn t a notion av what be to come afther the next minut. he be shoppin in the bazar on fut. twas dhrawin dusk thin an we stud watchin the little man hoppin in an out av the shop thryin to injuce the naygurs to mallum his bat. prisintly he sthrols up his arrums full av thruck an he sez in a consiquinshal way shticking out his little belly me good men sez he have ye see the kernel s b roosh. b roosh. say learoyd. there s no b roosh here nobbut a hekka. fwhat s that. sez thrigg. learoyd show him wan down the sthreet an he sez how thruly orientil. i will ride on a hekka. i saw thin that our rigimintal saint be for givin thrigg over to u neck an brisket. i purshued a hekka_ an i sez to the dhriver divil i sez ye black limb there s a sahib comin for this hekka. he want to go jildi to the padsahi jhil twas about tu moil away to shoot snipe chirria. you dhrive jehannum ke marfik mallum like hell. ti no manner av use bukkin to the sahib_ bekaze he doesn t samjao your talk. av he bolo anything just you choop and chel. dekker. go arsty for the first arder mile from cantonmints. thin chel shaitan ke marfik_ an the chooper you choops an the jildier you chels the good kooshy will that sahib be. an here s a rupee for ye. 
the hekka man know there be somethin out av the common in the air. he grin an sez bote achee. i goin damn fast. i pray that the kernel s b roosh wudn t arrive till me darlin benira by the grace av god be undher weigh. the little man put his thruck into the hekka an scuttle in like a fat guinea pig. niver offerin u the price av a dhrink for our service in helpin him home he s off to the padsahi jhil_ sez i to the others. 
ortheris take up the tale. 
jist then little buldoo kim up oo be the son of one of the artillery groom e would av make a evinly newspaper boy in london bein sharp an fly to all manner o game e ad bin watchin u puttin mister benhira into be temporary baroush an e sez what ave you be a doin of sahib. sez e. learoyd e catch im by the ear an e sez. 
ah say go on learoyd young mon that mon s gooin to have t goon out o thursday to morrow an thot s more work for you young mon. now sitha tak a tat an a lookri an ride tha domdest to t padsahi jhil. cotch thot there hekka_ and tell t driver iv your lingo thot you ve coorn to tak his place. t sahib doesn t speak t bat_ an he s a little mon. drive t hekka into t padsahi jhil into t waiter. leave t sahib theer an roon hoam. an here s a rupee for tha. 
then mulvaney and ortheris speak together in alternate fragment. mulvaney lead [you must pick out the two speaker a best you can]. he be a knowin little divil be bhuldoo e sez bote achee an cut wid a wink in his oi but hi sez there s money to be make an i want to see the ind av the campaign so hi say we ll double hout to the padsahi jhil an save the little man from bein dacoited by the murtherin bhuldoo an turn hup like reskooers in a vic oria melodrama so we double for the jhil_ an prisintly there be the divil av a hurroosh behind u an three bhoys on grasscuts pony come by poundin along for the dear life s elp me bob hif buldoo adn t raise a rig lar harmy of decoits to do the job in shtile. an we run an they run shplittin with laughin till we get near the jhil and ear sound of distress floatin molloncolly on the hevenin hair. [ortheris be grow poetical under the influence of the beer. the duet recommence. mulvaney lead again. ]. 
thin we hear bhuldoo the dacoit shoutin to the hekka man an wan of the young divils bring his stick down on the top av the hekka cover an benira thrigg inside howl murther an death. buldoo take the rein and dhrives like mad for the jhil_ havin dishpersed the hekka dhriver oo cum up to u an e sez sez e that sahib s nigh mad with funk. wot devil s work ave you lead me into. hall right sez we you catch that there pony an come along. this sahib s be decoited an we re go to resky im. say the driver decoits. wot decoits. that s buldoo the budmash bhuldoo be shoot. sez we ti a woild dissolute pathan frum the hill. there s about eight av thim coercin the sahib. you remimber that an you ll get another rupee. thin we hear the whop whop whop av the hekka turnin over an a splash av water an the voice av benira thrigg callin upon god to forgive his sin an buldoo an be friend squotterin in the water like boy in the serpentine. 
here the three musketeer retire simultaneously into the beer. 
well. what come next. say i. 
fwhat nex. answer mulvaney wipe his mouth. wud ye let three bould sodger bhoys lave the ornamint av the house av lord to be dhrowned an dacoited in a jhil. we form line av quarther column an we discinded upon the inimy. for the good part av tin minute you could not hear yerself spake. the tattoo be screamin in chune wid benira thrigg an bhuldoo s army an the shtick be whistlin roun the hekka_ an orth ri be beatin the hekka cover wid his fistes an learoyd yellin look out for their knife. an me cuttin into the dark right an lef dishpersin arrmy corp av pathan. holy mother av moses. twas more disp rit than ahmid kheyl wid maiwund throw in. afther a while bhuldoo an his bhoys flee. have ye iv see a rale live lord thryin to hide his nobility undher a fut an a half av brown swamp wather. ti the livin image av a water carrier s goatskin wid the shiver. it tuk toime to pershuade me frind benira he be not disimbowilled. an more toime to get out the hekka. the dhriver come up afther the battle swearin he tuk a hand in repulsin the inimy. benira be sick wid the fear. we escort him back very slow to cantonmints for that an the chill to soak into him. it suk. glory be to the rigimintil saint but it suk to the marrow av lord benira thrigg. 
here ortheris slowly with immense pride e sez you har my noble preserver sez e. you har a h_onor to the british harmy sez e. with that e describe the hawful band of dacoit wot set on im. there be about forty of em an e be hoverpowered by number so e be. but e never lorst be presence of mind so e didn t. e guv the hekka driver five rupee for be noble assistance an e say e would see to u after e ad speak to the kernul. for we be a h_onor to the regiment we be. 
an we three say mulvaney with a seraphic smile have dhrawn the par ti cu lar attinshin av bob bahadur more than wanst. but he s a rale good little man be bob. go on orth ri my son. 
then we leaf im at the kernul s ouse werry sick an we cut hover to b comp ny barrick an we sez we ave save benira from a bloody doom an the chance be agin there bein p raid on thursday. about ten minute late come three envelicks one for each of u. s elp me bob if the old bloke adn t guv u a five apiece sixty four rupee in the bazar. on thursday e be in orspital recoverin from be sanguinary encounter with a gang of pathan an b comp ny be drinkin emselves into clink by squad. so there never be no thursday p raid. but the kernal when e eard of our galliant conduct e sez hi know there s be some devilry somewhere sez e but i can t bring it ome to you three. 
an my privit imprisshin be say mulvaney get off the bar and turn his glass upside down that av they have know they wudn t have bring ut home. ti flyin in the face firstly av nature secon av the rig lations an third the will av terence mulvaney to hold p rades av thursday. 
good ma son. say learoyd. but young mon what s t notebook for. 
let be say mulvaney. this time next month we re in the sherapis. ti immortial fame the gentleman s goin to give u. but kape it dhark till we re out av the range av me little frind bob bahadur. 
and i have obey mulvaney s order. 
beyond the pale. 
love heed not caste nor sleep a break bed. i go in search of love and lose myself. hindu proverb. 
a man should whatever happen keep to his own caste race and breed. let the white go to the white and the black to the black. then whatever trouble fall be in the ordinary course of thing neither sudden alien nor unexpected. 
this be the story of a man who wilfully step beyond the safe limit of decent everyday society and pay for it heavily. 
he know too much in the first instance. and he saw too much in the second. he take too deep an interest in native life. but he will never do so again. 
deep away in the heart of the city behind jitha megji s bustee_ lie amir nath s gully which end in a dead wall pierce by one grate window. at the head of the gully be a big cow byre and the wall on either side of the gully be without window. neither suchet singh nor gaur chand approve of their womenfolk look into the world. if durga charan have be of their opinion he would have be a happy man to day and little bisesa would have be able to knead her own bread. her room look out through the grate window into the narrow dark gully where the sun never come and where the buffalo wallow in the blue slime. she be a widow about fifteen year old and she pray the god day and night to send her a lover. for she do not approve of live alone. 
one day the man trejago his name be come into amir nath s gully on an aimless wander. and after he have pass the buffalo stumble over a big heap of cattle food. 
then he saw that the gully end in a trap and hear a little laugh from behind the grate window. it be a pretty little laugh and trejago know that for all practical purpose the old arabian night be good guide go forward to the window and whisper that verse of the love song of har dyal which begin. 
can a man stand upright in the face of the naked sun. or a lover in the presence of his beloved. 
if my foot fail me o heart of my heart be i to blame be blind by the glimpse of your beauty. 
there come the faint tchink of a woman s bracelet from behind the grate and a little voice go on with the song at the fifth verse. 
ala. ala. can the moon tell the lotus of her love when the gate of heaven be shut and the cloud gather for the rain. they have take my beloved and drive her with the pack horse to the north. there be iron chain on the foot that be set on my heart. call to the bowman to make ready. 
the voice stop suddenly and trejago walk out of amir nath s gully wonder who in the world could have cap the love song of har dyal so neatly. 
next morning a he be drive to office an old woman throw a packet into his dog cart. in the packet be the half of a break glass bangle one flower of the blood red dhak_ a pinch of bhusa or cattle food and eleven cardamom. that packet be a letter not a clumsy compromise letter but an innocent unintelligible lover s epistle. 
trejago know far too much about these thing a i have say. no englishman should be able to translate object letter. but trejago spread all the trifle on the lid of his office box and begin to puzzle them out. 
a break glass bangle stand for a hindu widow all india over. because when her husband dy a woman s bracelet be break on her wrist. trejago saw the mean of the little bite of the glass. the flower of the dhak mean diversely desire come write or danger accord to the other thing with it. one cardamom mean jealousy. but when any article be duplicate in an object letter it lose it symbolic mean and stand merely for one of a number indicate time or if incense curd or saffron be send also place. the message run then a widow dhak flower and bhusa_ at eleven o clock. the pinch of bhusa enlighten trejago. he saw this kind of letter leaf much to instinctive knowledge that the bhusa refer to the big heap of cattle food over which he have fall in amir nath s gully and that the message must come from the person behind the grate. she be a widow. so the message run then a widow in the gully in which be the heap of bhusa_ desire you to come at eleven o clock. 
trejago throw all the rubbish into the fireplace and laugh. he know that men in the east do not make love under window at eleven in the forenoon nor do woman fix appointment a week in advance. so he go that very night at eleven into amir nath s gully clothe in a boorka_ which cloak a man a well a a woman. directly the gong of the city make the hour the little voice behind the grate take up the love song of har dyal at the verse where the panthan girl call upon har dyal to return. the song be really pretty in the vernacular. in english you miss the wail of it. it run something like this. 
alone upon the housetop to the north i turn and watch the lightning in the sky the glamour of thy footstep in the north come back to me beloved or i die. 
below my foot the still bazar be lay far far below the weary camel lie the camel and the captive of thy raid. come back to me beloved or i die. 
my father s wife be old and harsh with year and drudge of all my father s house be i. my bread be sorrow and my drink be tear come back to me beloved or i die. 
a the song stop trejago step up under the grate and whisper i be here. 
bisesa be good to look upon. 
that night be the begin of many strange thing and of a double life so wild that trejago to day sometimes wonder if it be not all a dream. bisesa or her old handmaiden who have throw the object letter have detach the heavy grate from the brick work of the wall. so that the window slide inside leave only a square of raw masonry into which an active man might climb. 
in the daytime trejago drive through his routine of office work or put on his call clothe and call on the lady of the station. wonder how long they would know him if they know of poor little bisesa. at night when all the city be still come the walk under the evil smell boorka_ the patrol through jitha megji s bustee_ the quick turn into amir nath s gully between the sleep cattle and the dead wall and then last of all bisesa and the deep even breathe of the old woman who sleep outside the door of the bare little room that durga charan allot to his sister s daughter. who or what durga charan be trejago never inquire. and why in the world he be not discover and knife never occur to him till his madness be over and bisesa. but this come late. 
bisesa be an endless delight to trejago. she be a ignorant a a bird. and her distort version of the rumor from the outside world that have reach her in her room amuse trejago almost a much a her lisp attempt to pronounce his name christopher. the first syllable be always more than she could manage and she make funny little gesture with her roseleaf hand a one throw the name away and then kneel before trejago ask him exactly a an englishwoman would do if he be sure he love her. trejago swear that he love her more than any one else in the world. which be true. 
after a month of this folly the exigency of his other life compel trejago to be especially attentive to a lady of his acquaintance. you may take it for a fact that anything of this kind be not only notice and discuss by a man s own race but by some hundred and fifty native a well. trejago have to walk with this lady and talk to her at the band stand and once or twice to drive with her. never for an instant dream that this would affect his dear out of the way life. but the news fly in the usual mysterious fashion from mouth to mouth till bisesa s duenna hear of it and tell bisesa. the child be so trouble that she do the household work evilly and be beat by durga charan s wife in consequence. 
a week late bisesa tax trejago with the flirtation. she understand no gradation and speak openly. trejago laugh and bisesa stamp her little foot little foot light a marigold flower that could lie in the palm of a man s one hand. 
much that be write about oriental passion and impulsiveness be exaggerate and compile at second hand but a little of it be true. and when an englishman find that little it be quite a startle a any passion in his own proper life. bisesa rag and storm and finally threaten to kill herself if trejago do not at once drop the alien memsahib who have come between them. trejago try to explain and to show her that she do not understand these thing from a western standpoint. bisesa draw herself up and say simply. 
i do not. i know only this it be not good that i should have make you dear than my own heart to me sahib. you be an englishman. i be only a black girl she be fair than bar gold in the mint and the widow of a black man. 
then she sob and say but on my soul and my mother s soul i love you. there shall no harm come to you whatever happen to me. 
trejago argue with the child and try to soothe her but she seem quite unreasonably disturb. nothing would satisfy her save that all relation between them should end. he be to go away at once. and he go. a he drop out of the window she kiss his forehead twice and he walk home wonder. 
a week and then three week pass without a sign from bisesa. trejago think that the rupture have last quite long enough go down to amir nath s gully for the fifth time in the three week hop that his rap at the sill of the shift grate would be answer. he be not disappoint. 
there be a young moon and one stream of light fell down into amir nath s gully and strike the grate which be draw away a he knock. from the black dark bisesa hold out her arm into the moonlight. both hand have be cut off at the wrist and the stump be nearly heal. 
then a bisesa bow her head between her arm and sob some one in the room grunt like a wild beast and something sharp knife sword or spear thrust at trejago in his boorka. the stroke miss his body but cut into one of the muscle of the groin and he limp slightly from the wind for the rest of his day. 
the grate go into it place. there be no sign whatever from inside the house nothing but the moonlight strip on the high wall and the blackness of amir nath s gully behind. 
the next thing trejago remember after rag and shout like a madman between those pitiless wall be that he find himself near the river a the dawn be break throw away his boorka and go home bareheaded. 
* * * * *. 
what be the tragedy whether bisesa have in a fit of causeless despair tell everything or the intrigue have be discover and she torture to tell. whether durga charan know his name and what become of bisesa trejago doe not know to this day. something horrible have happen and the think of what it must have be come upon trejago in the night now and again and keep him company till the morning. one special feature of the case be that he doe not know where lie the front of durga charan s house. it may open on to a courtyard common to two or more house or it may lie behind any one of the gate of jitha megji s bustee. trejago cannot tell. he cannot get bisesa poor little bisesa back again. he ha lose her in the city where each man s house be a guard and a unknowable a the grave. and the grate that open into amir nath s gully ha be wall up. 
but trejago pay his call regularly and be reckon a very decent sort of man. 
there be nothing peculiar about him except a slight stiffness cause by a rid strain in the right leg. 
the god from the machine. 
hit a man an help a woman an ye can t be far wrong anyways. maxim of private mulvaney. 
the inexpressibles give a ball. they borrow a seven pounder from the gunner and wreathe it with laurel and make the dance floor plate glass and provide a supper the like of which have never be eat before and set two sentry at the door of the room to hold the tray of programme card. my friend private mulvaney be one of the sentry because he be the tall man in the regiment. when the dance be fairly start the sentry be release and private mulvaney go to curry favor with the mess sergeant in charge of the supper. whether the mess sergeant give or mulvaney take i cannot say. all that i be certain of be that at supper time i find mulvaney with private ortheris two third of a ham a loaf of bread half a pt de foie gras_ and two magnum of champagne sit on the roof of my carriage. a i come up i hear him say. 
praise be a danst doesn t come a often a ord ly room or by this an that orth ri me son i wud be the dishgrace av the rig mint instid av the bright jool in ut crown. 
_hand the colonel s pet noosance say ortheris but wot make you curse your ration. this ere fizzy stuff s good enough. 
stuff ye oncivilized pagin. ti champagne we re dhrinkin now. tisn t that i be set ag in. ti this quare stuff wid the little bit av black leather in it. i misdoubt i will be distressin ly sick wid it in the mornin. fwhat be ut. 
goose liver i say climb on the top of the carriage for i know that it be good to sit out with mulvaney than to dance many dance. 
goose liver be ut. say mulvaney. faith i m thinkin thim that make it wud do betther to cut up the colonel. he carry a power av liver undher his right arrum whin the day be warm an the night chill. he wud give thim ton an ton av liver. ti he sez so. i m all liver to day sez he. an wid that he ordhers me ten day c. b. for a moild a dhrink a iv a good sodger take betune his teeth. 
that be when e want for to wash isself in the fort ditch ortheris explain. say there be too much beer in the barrack water butt for a god fear man. you be lucky in gettin orf with wot you do mulvaney. 
say you so. now i m pershuaded i be cruel hard trated seein fwhat i ve do for the like av him in the day whin my eye be wide opin than they be now. man alive for the colonel to whip me on the peg in that way. me that have save the repitation av a ten time good man than him. twas ne farious an that mane a power av evil. 
never mind the nefariousness i say. whose reputation do you save. 
more s the pity twasn t my own but i tuk more trouble wid ut than av ut be. twas just my way messin wid fwhat be no business av mine. hear now. he settle himself at ease on the top of the carriage. i ll tell you all about ut. av coorse i will name no name for there s wan that s an orf cer s lady now that be in ut and no more will i name place for a man be thracked by a place. 
eyah. say ortheris lazily but this be a mix story wot s comin. 
wanst upon a time a the childer book say i be a recruity. 
be you though. say ortheris. now that s extryordinary. 
orth ri say mulvaney av you opin thim lip av yours again i will savin your presince sorr take you by the slack av your trouser an heave you. 
i m mum say ortheris. wot appened when you be a recruity. 
i be a betther recruity than you iv be or will be but that s neither here nor there. thin i become a man an the divil of a man i be fifteen year ago. they call me buck mulvaney in thim day an begad i tuk a woman s eye. i do that. ortheris ye scrub fwhat be ye sniggerin at. do you misdoubt me. 
devil a doubt. say ortheris. but i ve eard summat like that before. 
mulvaney dismiss the impertinence with a lofty wave of his hand and continue. 
an the orf cer av the rig mint i be in in thim day be orfcers gran men wid a manner on em an a way wid em such a be not make these day all but wan wan o the capt n. a bad dhrill a wake voice an a limp leg thim three thing be the sign av a bad man. you bear that in your mind orth ri me son. 
an the colonel av the rig mint have a daughter wan av thim lamblike bleatin pick me up an carry me or i ll die gurls such a be make for the natural prey av men like the capt n who be iverlastin payin coort to her though the colonel he say time an over kape out av the brute s way my dear. but he niver have the heart for to send her away from the throuble bein a he be a widower an she their wan child. 
stop a minute mulvaney say i. how in the world do you come to know these thing. 
how do i come. say mulvaney with a scornful grunt. bekaze i m turn durin the quane s pleasure to a lump av wood lookin out straight forninst me wid a a candelabbrum in my hand for you to pick your card out av must i not see nor feel. av coorse i du. up my back an in my boot an in the short hair av the neck that s where i kape my eye whim i m on duty an the reg lar wan be fix. know. take my word for it sorr ivrything an a great dale more be know in a rig mint. or fwhat wud be the use av a mess sargint or a sargint s wife doin wet nurse to the major s baby. to reshume. he be a bad dhrill be this capt n a rotten bad dhrill an whin first i run me eye over him i sez to myself. my militia bantam. i sez my cock av a gosport dunghill twas from portsmouth he come to u there s comb to be cut sez i an by the grace av god ti terence mulvaney will cut thim. 
so he wint menowderin and minanderin an blandandhering roun an about the colonel s daughter an she poor innocint lookin at him like a comm ssariat bullock look at the comp ny cook. he d a dhirty little scrub av a black moustache an he twist an turn ivry wurrd he use a av he find ut too sweet for to spit out. 
eyah. he be a tricky man an a liar by natur. some be bear so. he be wan. i know he be over his belt in money borrow from native. besides a lot av other matthers which in regard for your presince sorr i will oblitherate. a little av fwhat i know the colonel know for he wud have none av him an that i m thinkin by fwhat happen aftherward the capt in know. 
wan day bein mortial idle or they wud never ha thried ut the rig mint give amsure theatrical orf cer an orfcers lady. you ve see the like time an again sorr an poor fun ti for them that sit in the back row an stamp wid their boot for the honor av the rig mint. i be tell off for to shif the scene haulin up this an draggin down that. light work ut be wid lashins av beer and the gurl that dhressed the orf cer lady but she die in aggra twelve year go an my tongue s gettin the betther av me. they be actin a play thing call sweethearts_ which you may ha hear av an the colonel s daughter she be a lady s maid. the capt n be a boy call broom spread broom be his name in the play. thin i saw ut come out in the actin fwhat i niver saw before an that be that he be no gentleman. they be too much together thim two a whishperin behind the scene i shift an some av what they say i hear. for i be death blue death an ivy on the comb cuttin. he be iverlastin ly oppress her to fall in wid some sneakin schame av his an she be thryin to stand out against him but not a though she be set in her will. i wonder now in thim day that my ear do not grow a yard on me head wid list nin. but i look straight forninst me an haul up this an drag down that such a be my duty an the orf cer lady sez one to another thinkin i be out av listen reach. fwhat an obligin young man be this corp ril mulvaney. i be a corp ril then. i be rejuced aftherward but no matther i be a corp ril wanst. 
well this sweetheart business wint on like most amshure theatrical an barrin fwhat i suspicioned twasn t till the dhress rehearsal that i saw for certain that thim two he the blackguard an she no wise than she should ha be have put up an evasion. 
a what. say i. 
e vasion. fwhat you call an elopemint. e vasion i call it bekaze exceptin whin ti right an natural an proper ti wrong an dhirty to steal a man s wan child she not knowin her own mind. there be a sargint in the comm ssariat who set my face upon e vasions. i ll tell you about that. 
stick to the bloomin captain mulvaney say ortheris. comm ssariat sargints be low. 
mulvaney accept the amendment and go on. 
now i know that the colonel be no fool any more than me for i be hild the smart man in the rig mint an the colonel be the best orf cer commandin in asia. so fwhat he say an i say be a mortial truth. we know that the capt n be bad but for reason which i have already oblitherated i know more than me colonel. i wud ha roll out his face wid the butt av my gun before permittin av him to steal the gurl. saint know av he wud ha marry her and av he didn t she wud be in great tormint an the divil av a scandal. but i niver sthruck niver raise me hand on my shuperior orf cer. an that be a merricle now i come to considher it. 
mulvaney the dawn s risin say ortheris an we re no near ome than we be at the beginnin. lend me your pouch. mine s all dust. 
mulvaney pitch his pouch over and fill his pipe afresh. 
so the dhress rehearsal come to an end an bekaze i be curious i stay behind whin the scene shiftin be end an i shud ha be in barricks lyin a flat a a toad under a paint cottage thing. they be talkin in whisper an she be shiverin an gaspin like a fresh hukked fish. be you sure you ve get the hang av the manewvers. sez he or wurrds to that effec a the coort martial sez. sure a death sez she but i misdoubt ti cruel hard on my father. damn your father sez he or anyways twas fwhat he think the arrangement be a clear a mud. jungi will drive the carri ge afther all s over an you come to the station cool an aisy in time for the two o clock thrain where i ll be wid your kit. faith think i to myself thin there s a ayah in the business tu. 
a powerful bad thing be a ayah. don t you niver have any thruck wid wan. thin he begin sootherin her an all the orfcers an orfcers lady leave an they put out the light. to explain the theory av the flight a they say at muskthry you must understand that afther this sweetheart nonsinse be end there be another little bite av a play call couple some kind av couple or another. the gurl be actin in this but not the man. i suspicioned he d go to the station wid the gurl s kit at the end av the first piece. twas the kit that flusthered me for i know for a capt n to go trap about the impire wid the lord know what av a truso on his arrum be nefarious an wud be bad than easin the flag so far a the talk aftherward wint. 
old on mulvaney. wot s truso. say ortheris. 
you re an oncivilized man me son. whin a gurl s marry all her kit an coutrements be truso_ which mane weddin portion. an ti the same whin she s runnin away even wid the big blackguard on the arrmy list. 
so i make my plan av campaign. the colonel s house be a good two mile away. dennis sez i to my color sargint av you love me lend me your kyart for me heart be bruk an me foot be sore wid trampin to and from this foolishness at the gaff. an dennis lend ut wid a rampin stampin red stallion in the shaft. whin they be all settle down to their sweetheart for the first scene which be a long wan i slip outside and into the kyart. mother av hivin. but i make that horse walk an we come into the colonel s compound a the divil wint through athlone in standin leps. there be no one there excipt the sarvints an i wint round to the back an find the girl s ayah. 
ye black brazen jezebel sez i sellin your masther s honor for five rupee pack up all the miss sahib s kit an look slippy. capt n sahib s order sez i go to the station we be i sez an wid that i lay my finger to my nose an look the schamin sinner i be. 
_bote acchy say she. so i know she be in the business an i pile up all the sweet talk i d iv learn in the bazar on to this she bullock an pray av her to put all the quick she know into the thing. while she pack i stud outside an sweat for i be want for to shif the second scene. i tell you a young gurl s e vasion mane a much baggage a a rig mint on the line av march. saint help dennis s spring think i a i bundle the stuff into the thrap for i ll have no mercy. 
i m comin too say the ayah. 
no you don t sez i late pechy. you baito where you be. i ll pechy come an bring you sart_ along with me you maraudin niver mind fwhat i call her. 
thin i wint for the gaff an by the special ordher av providence for i be doin a good work you will ondersthand dennis s spring hild toight. now whin the capt n go for that kit think i he ll be throubled. at the end av sweetheart off the capt n run in his kyart to the colonel s house an i sit down on the step and laugh. wanst an again i slip in to see how the little piece be goin an whin ut be near endin i step out all among the carriage an sing out very softly jungi. wid that a carr ge begin to move an i wave to the dhriver. hitherao. sez i an he hitheraoed till i judge he be at proper distance an thin i tuk him fair an square betune the eye all i know for good or bad an he dhropped wid a guggle like the canteen beer engine whin ut s runnin low thin i run to the kyart an tuk out all the kit an pile it into the carr ge the sweat runnin down my face in dhrops go home sez i to the sais. you ll find a man close here. very sick he be. take him away an av you iv say wan wurrd about fwhat you ve dekkoed i ll marrow you till your own wife win t sumjao who you be. thin i hear the stampin av foot at the ind av the play an i run in to let down the curtain. whin they all come out the gurl thried to hide herself behind wan av the pillar an sez jungi in a voice that wouldn t ha scar a hare. i run over to jungi s carr ge an tuk up the lousy old horse blanket on the box wrap my head an the rest av me in ut an dhrove up to where she be. 
miss sahib sez i. go to the station. captain sahib s order. an widout a sign she jump in all among her own kit. 
i lay to an dhruv like steam to the colonel s house before the colonel be there an she scream an i think she be goin off. out come the ayah say all sort av thing about the capt n havin come for the kit an go to the station. 
take out the luggage you divil sez i or i ll murther you. 
the light av the thraps people comin from the gaff be showin across the parade grind an by this an that the way thim two woman work at the bundle an thrunks be a caution. i be dyin to help but seein i didn t want to be know i sit wid the blanket roun me an cough an thank the saint there be no moon that night. 
whin all be in the house again i niver ask for bukshish but dhruv tremenjus in the opp site way from the other carr ge an put out my light. presintly i saw a naygur man wallowin in the road. i slip down before i get to him for i suspicioned providence be wid me all through that night. twas jungi his nose smash in flat all dumb sick a you please. dennis s man must have tilt him out av the thrap. whin he come to hutt. sez i but he begin to howl. 
you black lump av dirt i sez be this the way you dhrive your gharri. that tikka ha be owin an fere owin all over the bloomin country this whole bloomin night an you a mut walla a davey s sow. get up you hog. sez i loud for i hear the wheel av a thrap in the dark. get up an light your lamp or you ll be run into. this be on the road to the railway station. 
fwhat the divil s this. sez the capt n s voice in the dhark an i could judge he be in a lather av rage. 
_gharri dhriver here dhrunk sorr sez i. i ve find his gharri sthrayin about cantonmints an now i ve find him. 
oh. sez the capt n. fwhat s his name. i stoop down an pretend to listen. 
he sez his name s jungi sorr sez i. 
hould my harse sez the capt n to his man an wid that he get down wid the whip an lay into jungi just mad wid rage an swearin like the scutt he be. 
i think afther a while he wud kill the man so i sez. stop sorr or you ll murdher him. that dhrew all his fire on me an he curse me into blaze an out again. i stud to attenshin an salute. sorr sez i av ivry man in this wurruld have his right i m thinkin that more than wan wud be beat to a jelly for this night s work that niver come off at all sorr a you see. now think i to myself terence mulvaney you ve cut your own throat for he ll sthrike an you ll knock him down for the good av his sowl an your own iverlastin dishgrace. 
but the capt n never say a single wurrd. he choke where he stud an thin he go into his thrap widout sayin good night an i wint back to barricks. 
and then. say ortheris and i together. 
that be all say mulvaney niver another word do i hear av the whole thing. all i know be that there be no e vasion an that be fwhat i want. now i put ut to you sorr be ten day c. b. a fit an a proper tratement for a man who ha behave a me. 
well any ow say ortheris tweren t this ere colonel s daughter an you be blazin cop when you try to wash in the fort ditch. 
that say mulvaney finish the champagne be a shuparfluous an impert nint observation. 
the daughter of the regiment. 
jain ardin be a sarjint s wife a sarjint s wife wu she she marry of im in orldershort an come across the sea. chorus. ave you never eard tell o jain ardin. jain ardin. jain ardin. ave you never eard tell o jain ardin. the pride o the companee. 
old barrack room ballad. 
a gentleman who doesn t know the circasian circle ought not to stand up for it puttin everybody out. that be what miss mckenna say and the sergeant who be my vi  vi look the same thing. i be afraid of miss mckenna. she be six foot high all yellow freckle and red hair and be simply clothe in white satin shoe a pink muslin dress an apple green stuff sash and black silk glove with yellow rose in her hair. wherefore i flee from miss mckenna and seek my friend private mulvaney who be at the cant refreshment table. 
so you ve be dancin with little jhansi mckenna sorr she that s goin to marry corp ril slane. whin you next conversh wid your lorruds an your lady tell thim you ve dance wid little jhansi. ti a thing to be proud av. 
but i wasn t proud. i be humble. i saw a story in private mulvaney s eye. and besides if he stay too long at the bar he would i know qualify for more pack drill. now to meet an esteem friend do pack drill outside the guardroom be embarrass especially if you happen to be walk with his command officer. 
come on to the parade grind mulvaney it s cool there and tell me about miss mckenna. what be she and who be she and why be she call jhansi. 
d ye mane to say you ve niver hear av ould pummeloe s daughter. an you thinkin you know thing. i m wid ye in a minut whin me poipe s light. 
we come out under the star. mulvaney sit down on one of the artillery bridge and begin in the usual way. his pipe between his teeth his big hand clasp and drop between his knee and his cap well on the back of his head. 
whin mr. mulvaney that be be miss shadd that be you be a dale young than you be now an the army be dif rint in sev ril e senshuls. bhoys have no call for to marry nowadays an that s why the army ha so few rale good honust swearin strapagin tinder hearted heavy futted wife a ut use to have whin i be a corp ril. i be rejuced aftherward but no matther i be a corp ril wanst. in thim time a man live an die wid his regiment. an by natur he marry whin he be a man. whin i be corp ril mother av hivin how the rigimint ha die an be borrun since that day. my color sar jint be ould mckenna an a marry man tu. an his woife his first woife for he marry three time do mckenna be bridget mckenna from portarlington like mesilf. i ve misremember fwhat her first name be. but in b comp ny we call her ould pummeloe by reason av her figure which be entirely cir cum fe renshill. like the big dhrum. now that woman god rock her sowl to rest in glory. be for everlastin havin childher. an mckenna whin the fifth or sixth come squallin on to the musther roll swear he wud number thim off in future. but ould pummeloe she pray av him to christen them after the name av the station they be borrun in. so there be colaba mckenna an muttra mckenna an a whole presidincy av other mckennas an little jhansi dancin over yonder. whin the childher wasn t bornin they be die. for av our childher die like sheep in these day they die like fly thin i lose me own little shadd but no matther. ti long ago and mr. mulvaney niver have another. 
i m digresshin. wan divil s hot summer there come an order from some mad ijjit whose name i misremember for the rigimint to go up country. maybe they want to know how the new rail carry throops. they know. on me sowl they know before they be do. old pummeloe have just bury muttra mckenna. an the season bein onwholesim only little jhansi mckenna who be four year ould thin be leave on hand. 
five child go in fourteen month. twas harrd wasn t ut. 
so we wint up to our new station in that blazin heat may the curse av saint lawrence conshume the man who give the ordher. will i iv forget that move. they give u two wake thrains to the rigimint. an we be eight hundher and sivinty strong. there be a b c an d company in the secon thrain wid twelve woman no orficers lady an thirteen childher. we be to go six hundher mile an railway be new in thim day. whin we have be a night in the belly av the thrain the men ragin in their shirt an dhrinkin anything they cud find an eatin bad fruit stuff whin they cud for we cudn t stop em i be a corp ril thin the cholera bruk out wid the dawnin av the day. 
pray to the saint you may niver see cholera in a throop thrain. ti like the judgmint av god hittin down from the nakid sky. we run into a rest camp a ut might have be ludianny but not by any mean so comfortable. the orficer commandin send a telegrapt up the line three hundher mile up askin for help. faith we want ut for ivry sowl av the follower run for the dear life a soon a the thrain stop. an by the time that telegrapt be writ there wasn t a naygur in the station exceptin the telegrapt clerk an he only bekaze he be hold down to his chair by the scruff av his sneakin black neck. thin the day begin wid the noise in the carr ge an the rattle av the men on the platform fallin over arm an all a they stud for to answer the comp ny muster roll before goin over to the camp. tisn t for me to say what like the cholera be like. maybe the doctor cud ha tould av he hadn t drop on to the platform from the door av a carriage where we be takin out the dead. he die wid the rest. some bhoys have die in the night. we tuk out siven and twenty more be sickenin a we tuk thim. the woman be huddle up anyways screamin wid fear. 
sez the commandin orficer whose name i misremember take the woman over to that tope av tree yonder. get thim out av the camp. ti no place for thim. 
ould pummeloe be sittin on her beddin rowl thryin to kape little jhansi quiet. go off to that tope. sez the orficer. go out av the men s way. 
be damn av i do. sez ould pummeloe an little jhansi squattin by her mother s side squeak out be damn av i do tu. thin ould pummeloe turn to the woman an she sez be ye goin to let the bhoys die while you re picnickin ye slut. sez she. ti wather they want. come on an help. 
wid that she turn up her sleeve an step out for a well behind the rest camp little jhansi trottin behind wid a lotah an string an the other woman followin like lamb wid horse bucket and cookin pot. whin all the thing be full ould pummeloe march back into camp twas like a battlefield wid all the glory missin at the hide av the rigimint av woman. 
mckenna me man. she sez wid a voice on her like grand roun s challenge tell the bhoys to be quiet. ould pummeloe s comin to look afther thim wid free dhrinks. 
thin we cheer an the cheerin in the line be loud than the noise av the poor divils wid the sickness on thim. but not much. 
you see we be a new an raw rigimint in those day an we cud make neither head nor tail av the sickness. an so we be useless. the men be goin roun an about like dumb sheep waitin for the nex man to fall over an sayin undher their spache fwhat be ut. in the name av god fwhat be ut. twas horrible. but through ut all up an down an down an up wint ould pummeloe an little jhansi all we cud see av the baby undher a dead man s helmut wid the chin strap swingin about her little stummick up an down wid the wather an fwhat brandy there be. 
now an thin ould pummeloe the tear runnin down her fat red face sez me bhoys me poor dead darlin bhoys. but for the most she be thryin to put heart into the men an kape thim stiddy. and little jhansi be tellin thim all they wud be betther in the mornin. twas a thrick she d pick up from hearin ould pummeloe whin muttra be burnin out wid fever. in the mornin. twas the iverlastin mornin at st. pether s gate be the mornin for seven an twenty good men. and twenty more be sick to the death in that bitter burnin sun. but the woman work like angils a i ve say an the men like divils till two doctor come down from above and we be rescue. 
but just before that ould pummeloe on her knee over a bhoy in my squad right cot man to me he be in the barrick tellin him the worrud av the church that niver fail a man yet sez hould me up bhoys. i m feelin bloody sick. twas the sun not the cholera do ut. she mi remember she be only wearin her ould black bonnet an she die wid mckenna me man houldin her up an the bhoys howl whin they bury her. 
that night a big wind blow an blow an blow an blow the tent flat. but it blow the cholera away an niver another case there be all the while we be waitin ten day in quarintin. av you will belave me the thrack av the sickness in the camp be for all the wurruld the thrack av a man walkin four time in a figur av eight through the tent. they say ti the wandherin jew take the cholera wid him. i believe ut. 
an that_ say mulvaney illogically be the cause why little jhansi mckenna be fwhat she be. she be bring up by the quartermaster sergeant s wife whin mckenna die but she b long to b comp ny. and this tale i m tellin you wid a proper appreciashin av jhansi mckenna i ve belt into ivry recruity av the comp ny a he be draft. faith twas me belt corp ril slane into askin the girl. 
not really. 
man i do. she s no beauty to look at but she s ould pummeloe s daughter an ti my juty to provide for her. just before slane get his promotion i sez to him slane sez i to morrow twill be insubordinashin av me to chastise you. but by the sowl av ould pummeloe who be now in glory av you don t give me your wurrud to ask jhansi mckenna at wanst i ll peel the flesh off yer bone wid a brass huk to night ti a dishgrace to b comp ny she s be single so long. sez i. be i goin to let a three year ould preshume to discoorse wid me my will bein set. no. slane wint an ask her. he s a good bhoy be slane. wan av these day he ll get into the com ssariat an dhrive a buggy wid his savin s. so i provide for ould pummeloe s daughter. an now you go along an dance agin wid her. 
and i do. 
i felt a respect for miss jhansi mckenna. and i go to her wed late on. 
perhaps i will tell you about that one of these day. 
the madness of private ortheris. 
oh. where would i be when my froat be dry. oh. where would i be when the bullet fly. oh. where would i be when i come to die. 
why. 
somewhere anigh my chum. if e s liquor e ll give me some if i m dyin e ll old my ead an e ll write em ome when i m dead. gawd send u a trusty chum. barrack room ballad. 
my friend mulvaney and ortheris have go on a shoot expedition for one day. learoyd be still in hospital recover from fever pick up in burma. they send me an invitation to join them and be genuinely pain when i bring beer almost enough beer to satisfy two private of the line. and me. 
twasn t for that we bid you welkim sorr say mulvaney sulkily. twas for the pleasure av your comp ny. 
ortheris come to the rescue with well e win t be none the bad for bringin liquor with im. we ain t a file o dooks. we re bloomin tommies ye cantankris hirishman. an eres your very good ealth. 
we shoot all the forenoon and kill two pariah dog four green parrot sit one kite by the burn ghaut one snake fly one mud turtle and eight crow. game be plentiful. then we sit down to tiffin bull mate an bran bread mulvaney call it by the side of the river and take pot shot at the crocodile in the interval of cut up the food with our only pocket knife. then we drink up all the beer and throw the bottle into the water and fire at them. after that we ease belt and stretch ourselves on the warm sand and smoke. we be too lazy to continue shoot. 
ortheris heave a big sigh a he lay on his stomach with his head between his fist. then he swear quietly into the blue sky. 
fwhat s that for. say mulvaney have ye not drink enough. 
tott nim court road an a gal i fancy there. wot s the good of sodgerin. 
orth ri me son say mulvaney hastily ti more than likely you ve get throuble in your inside wid the beer. i feel that way mesilf whin my liver get rusty. 
ortheris go on slowly not heed the interruption. 
i m a tommy a bloomin eight anna dog stealin tommy with a number instead of a decent name. wot s the good o me. if i ad a stay at ome i might a marry that gal and a kep a little shorp in the ammersmith igh. s. orth ri prac ti cal taxi d mist. with a stuff fox like they a in the haylesbury dairy in the winder an a little case of blue and yaller glass heyes an a little wife to call shorp. shorp. when the door bell ring. a it his_ i m on y a tommy a bloomin gawd forsake beer swillin tommy. rest on your harm versed_ stan at hease. shun. verse harm. right an lef tarrn. slow march. alt front. rest on your harm verse. with blank cartridge load. an that s the end o me. he be quote fragment from funeral party order. 
stop ut. shout mulvaney. whin you ve fire into nothin a often a me over a good man than yoursilf you will not make a mock av thim order. ti bad than whistlin the dead march in barricks. an you full a a tick an the sun cool an all an all. i take shame for you. you re no good than a pagin you an your firin party an your glass eye. win t you stop ut sorr. 
what could i do. could i tell ortheris anything that he do not know of the pleasure of his life. i be not a chaplain nor a subaltern and ortheris have a right to speak a he think fit. 
let him run mulvaney i say. it s the beer. 
no. tisn t the beer say mulvaney. i know fwhat s comin. he s tuk this way now an agin an it s bad it s bad for i m fond av the bhoy. 
indeed mulvaney seem needlessly anxious. but i know that he look after ortheris in a fatherly way. 
let me talk let me talk say ortheris dreamily. d you stop your parrit screamin of a ot day when the cage be a cookin be pore little pink toe orf mulvaney. 
pink toe. d ye mane to say you ve pink toe undher your bullswools ye blandanderin mulvaney gather himself together for a terrific denunciation school misthress. pink toe. how much bass wid the label do that ravin child dhrink. 
tain t bass say ortheris it s a bitter beer nor that. it s omesickness. 
hark to him. an he goin home in the sherapis in the inside av four month. 
i don t care. it s all one to me. ow d you know i ain t fraid o dyin fore i get my discharge paipers. he recommence in a sing song voice the order. 
i have never see this side of ortheris character before but evidently mulvaney have and attach serious importance to it. while ortheris babble with his head on his arm mulvaney whisper to me. 
he s always tuk this way whin he s be check overmuch by the childher they make sarjints nowadays. that an havin nothin to do. i can t make ut out anyways. 
well what doe it matter. let him talk himself through. 
ortheris begin sing a parody of the ramrod corp full of cheerful allusion to battle murder and sudden death. he look out across the river a he sing. and his face be quite strange to me. mulvaney catch me by the elbow to ensure attention. 
matther. it matthers everything. ti some sort av fit that s on him. i ve see ut. twill hould him all this night an in the middle av it he ll get out av his cot an go rakin in the rack for his coutremints. thin he ll come over to me an say i m goin to bombay. answer for me in the mornin. thin me an him will fight a we ve do before him to go an me to hould him an so we ll both come on the book for disturbin in barricks. i ve belt him an i ve bruk his head an i ve talk to him but ti no manner av use whin the fit s on him. he s a good a bhoy a ever step whin his mind s clear. i know fwhat s comin though this night in barricks. lord send he doesn t loose on me whin i rise to knock him down. ti that that s in my mind day an night. 
this put the case in a much le pleasant light and fully account for mulvaney s anxiety. he seem to be try to coax ortheris out of the fit. for he shout down the bank where the boy be lie. 
listen now you wid the pore pink toe an the glass eye. do you shwim the irriwaddy at night behin me a a bhoy shud. or be you hidin under a bed a you be at ahmid kheyl. 
this be at once a gross insult and a direct lie and mulvaney mean it to bring on a fight. but ortheris seem shut up in some sort of trance. he answer slowly without a sign of irritation in the same cadenced voice a he have use for his fire party order. 
_hi swim the irriwaddy in the night a you know for to take the town of lungtungpen nakid an without fear. hand where i be at ahmed kheyl you know and four bloomin pathan know too. but that be summat to do an didn t think o dyin. now i m sick to go ome go ome go ome. no i ain t mammy sick because my uncle brung me up but i m sick for london again. sick for the sound of er an the sight of er and the stink of er. orange peel and hasphalte an gas comin in over vaux all bridge. sick for the rail goin down to box ill with your gal on your knee an a new clay pipe in your face. that an the stran light where you know ev ry one an the copper that take you up be a old friend that tuk you up before when you be a little smitchy boy lie loose tween the temple an the dark harches. no bloomin guard mountin no bloomin rotten stone nor khaki an yourself your own master with a gal to take an see the humaners practicin a hookin dead corps out of the serpentine o sunday. an i lef all that for to serve the widder beyond the sea where there ain t no woman and there ain t no liquor worth avin and there ain t nothin to see nor do nor say nor feel nor think. lord love you stanley orth ri but you re a big bloomin fool than the rest o the reg ment and mulvaney wire together. there s the widder sittin at ome with a gold crownd on er ead. and ere be hi stanley orth ri the widder s property a rottin fool. 
his voice rise at the end of the sentence and he wind up with a six shoot anglo vernacular oath. mulvaney say nothing but look at me a if he expect that i could bring peace to poor ortheris trouble brain. 
i remember once at rawal pindi have see a man nearly mad with drink sober by be make a fool of. some regiment may know what i mean. i hop that we might slake off ortheris in the same way though he be perfectly sober. so i say. 
what s the use of grouse there and speak against the widow. 
i didn t. say ortheris s elp me gawd i never say a word agin er an i wouldn t not if i be to desert this minute. 
here be my open. well you mean to anyhow. what s the use of crack on for nothing. would you slip it now if you get the chance. 
on y try me. say ortheris jump to his foot a if he have be sting. 
mulvaney jump too. fwhat be you go to do. say he. 
help ortheris down to bombay or karachi whichever he like. you can report that he separate from you before tiffin and leave his gun on the bank here. 
i m to report that be i. say mulvaney slowly. very well. if orth ri mane to desert now and will desert now an you sorr who have be a frind to me an to him will help him to ut i terence mulvaney on my oath which i ve never bruk yet will report a you say but here he step up to ortheris and shake the stock of the fowl piece in his face your fist help you stanley orth ri if ever i come across you agin. 
i don t care. say ortheris. i m sick o this dorg s life. give me a chanst. don t play with me. le me go. 
strip say i and change with me and then i ll tell you what to do. 
i hop that the absurdity of this would check ortheris. but he have kick off his ammunition boot and get rid of his tunic almost before i have loose my shirt collar. mulvaney grip me by the arm. 
the fit s on him. the fit s workin on him still. by my honor and sowl we shall be accessiry to a desartion yet. only twenty eight day a you say sorr or fifty six but think o the shame the black shame to him an me. i have never see mulvaney so excite. 
but ortheris be quite calm and a soon a he have exchange clothe with me and i stand up a private of the line he say shortly now. come on. what nex. d ye mean fair. what must i do to get out o this ere a hell. 
i tell him that if he would wait for two or three hour near the river i would ride into the station and come back with one hundred rupee. he would with that money in his pocket walk to the near side station on the line about five mile away and would there take a first class ticket for karachi. know that he have no money on him when he go out shoot his regiment would not immediately wire to the seaport but would hunt for him in the native village near the river. further no one would think of seek a deserter in a first class carriage. at karachi he be to buy white clothe and ship if he could on a cargo steamer. 
here he break in. if i help him to karachi he would arrange all the rest. then i order him to wait where he be until it be dark enough for me to ride into the station without my dress be notice. now god in his wisdom ha make the heart of the british soldier who be very often an unlicked ruffian a soft a the heart of a little child in order that he may believe in and follow his officer into tight and nasty place. he doe not so readily come to believe in a civilian but when he doe he belief implicitly and like a dog. i have have the honor of the friendship of private ortheris at interval for more than three year and we have deal with each other a man by man consequently he consider that all my word be true and not speak lightly. 
mulvaney and i leave him in the high grass near the river bank and go away still keep to the high grass toward my horse. the shirt scratch me horribly. 
we wait nearly two hour for the dusk to fall and allow me to ride off. we speak of ortheris in whisper and strain our ear to catch any sound from the spot where we have leave him. but we hear nothing except the wind in the plume grass. 
i ve bruk his head say mulvaney earnestly time an agin. i ve nearly kilt him wid the belt an yet i can t knock thim fit out av his soft head. no. an he s not soft for he s reasonable an likely by natur. fwhat be ut. be ut his breedin which be nothin or his edukashin which he niver get. you that think ye know thing answer me that. 
but i find no answer. i be wonder how long ortheris in the bank of the river would hold out and whether i should be force to help him to desert a i have give my word. 
just a the dusk shut down and with a very heavy heart i be begin to saddle up my horse we hear wild shout from the river. 
the devil have depart from private stanley ortheris no. b company. the loneliness the dusk and the wait have drive them out a i have hop. we set off at the double and find him plunge about wildly through the grass with his coat off my coat off i mean. he be call for u like a madman. 
when we reach him he be drip with perspiration and tremble like a startle horse. we have great difficulty in soothe him. he complain that he be in civilian kit and want to tear my clothe off his body. i order him to strip and we make a second exchange a quickly a possible. 
the rasp of his own greyback shirt and the squeak of his boot seem to bring him to himself. he put his hand before his eye and say. 
wot be it. i ain t mad i ain t sunstrook an i ve bin an go an say an bin an go an do. wot ave i bin an do. 
fwhat have you do. say mulvaney. you ve dishgraced yourself though that s no matter. you ve dishgraced b comp ny an bad av all you ve dishgraced me. me that teach you how for to walk abroad like a man whin you be a dhirty little fish back little whimperin little recruity. a you be now stanley orth ri. 
ortheris say nothing for a while then he unslung his belt heavy with the badge of half a dozen regiment that his own have lie with and hand it over to mulvaney. 
i m too little for to mill you mulvaney he an you ve strook me before. but you can take an cut me in two with this ere if you like. 
mulvaney turn to me. 
lave me to talk to him sorr say mulvaney. 
i leave and on my way home think a good deal over ortheris in particular and my friend private thomas atkins whom i love in general. 
but i could not come to any conclusion of any kind whatever. 
l envoi. 
and they be strong hand than mine that digged the ruby from the earth more cunning brain that make it worth the large desire of a king. and bold heart that through the brine go down the perfect pearl to bring. 
lo i have work in common clay rude figure of a rough hew race. for pearl strew not the market place in this my town of banishment where with the shift dust i play and eat the bread of discontent. yet be there life in that i make oh thou who knowest turn and see. a thou hast power over me so have i power over these because i work them for thy sake and breathe in them mine agony. 
small mirth be in the make. now i lift the cloth that cloak the clay and weary at thy foot i lay my ware ere i go forth to sell. the long bazar will praise but thou heart of my heart have i do well. 
