france at war on the frontier of civilization. 
by rudyard kipling. 

content. 
poem. france i. on the frontier of civilization ii. the nation s spirit and a new inheritance iii. battle spectacle and a review iv. the spirit of the people v. life in trench on the mountain side vi. the common task of a great people. 
france at war on the frontier of civilization. 
france* by rudyard kipling. 
break to every know mischance lift over all by the light sane joy of life the buckler of the gaul furious in luxury merciless in toil terrible with strength that draw from her tireless soil strict judge of her own worth gentle of men s mind first to follow truth and last to leave old truth behind france beloved of every soul that love it fellow kind. 
ere our birth. rememberest thou. side by side we lay fret in the womb of rome to begin the fray. ere men know our tongue apart our one taste be know each must mould the other s fate a he work his own. to this end we stir mankind till all earth be ours till our world end strife begin wayside throne and power puppet that we make or break to bar the other s path necessary outpost folk hireling of our wrath. to this end we storm the sea tack for tack and burst through the doorway of new world doubtful which be first. hand on hilt. rememberest thou. ready for the blow. sure whatever else we meet we should meet our foe. spur or baulk at ev ry stride by the other s strength so we ride the age down and every ocean s length. where do you refrain from u or we refrain from you. ask the wave that ha not watch war between u two. others hold u for a while but with weak charm these we quit at the call for each other s arm. eager toward the know delight equally we strive each the other s mystery terror need and love. to each other s open court with our proof we come where could we find honour else or men to test the claim. from each other s throat we wrench valour s last reward that extort word of praise gasp twixt lunge and guard. in each other s cup we pour mingle blood and tear brutal joy unmeasured hope intolerable fear all that soil or salt life for a thousand year. prove beyond the need of proof match in every clime o companion we have live greatly through all time. yoke in knowledge and remorse now we come to rest laugh at old villainy that time ha turn to jest pardon old necessity no pardon can efface that undying sin we share in rouen market place. now we watch the new year shape wonder if they hold fierce light in their heart than we launch of old. now we hear new voice rise question boast or gird a we rag. rememberest thou. when our crowd be stir. now we count new keel afloat and new host on land mass like ours. rememberest thou. when our stroke be plan. we be school for dear life sake to know each other s blade. what can blood and iron make more than we have make. we have learn by keen use to know each other s mind. what shall blood and iron loose that we cannot bind. we who sweep each other s coast sack each other s home since the sword of brennus clash on the scale at rome listen court and close again wheel girth to girth in the strain and bloodless guard set for peace on earth. 
break to every know mischance lift over all by the light sane joy of life the buckler of the gaul furious in luxury merciless in toil terrible with strength renew from a tireless soil strict judge of her own worth gentle of men s mind first to follow truth and last to leave old truth behind france beloved of every soul that love or serf it kind. 
*first publish june. 
i. 
on the frontier of civilization. 
it s a pretty park say the french artillery officer. we ve do a lot for it since the owner leave. i hope he ll appreciate it when he come back. 
the car traverse a wind drive through wood between bank embellish with little chalet of a rustic nature. at first the chalet stand their full height above grind suggest tea garden in england. further on they sink into the earth till at the top of the ascent only their solid brown roof show. tear branch droop across the driveway with here and there a scorch patch of undergrowth explain the reason of their modesty. 
the chateau that command these glory of forest and park sit boldly on a terrace. there be nothing wrong with it except if one look closely a few scratch or dint on it white stone wall or a neatly drill hole under a flight of step. one such hole end in an unexploded shell. yes say the officer. they arrive here occasionally. 
something bellow across the fold of the wooded hill. something grunt in reply. something pass overhead querulously but not without dignity. two clear fresh bark join the chorus and a man move lazily in the direction of the gun. 
well. suppose we come and look at thing a little say the command officer. 
an observation post. 
there be a specimen tree a tree worthy of such a park the sort of tree visitor be always take to admire. a ladder run up it to a platform. what little wind there be sway the tall top and the ladder creak like a ship s gangway. a telephone bell tinkle foot overhead. two invisible gun speak fervently for half a minute and break off like terrier choke on a leash. we climb till the topmost platform sway sicklily beneath u. here one find a rustic shelter always of the tea garden pattern a table a map and a little window wreathe with live branch that give one the first view of the devil and all his work. it be a stretch of open country with a few stick like old tooth brush which have once be tree round a farm. the rest be yellow grass barren to all appearance a the veldt. 
the grass be yellow because they have use gas here say an officer. their trench be. you can see for yourself. 
the gun in the wood begin again. they seem to have no relation to the regularly space burst of smoke along a little smear in the desert earth two thousand yard away no connection at all with the strong voice overhead come and go. it be a impersonal a the drive of the sea along a breakwater. 
thus it go. a pause a gather of sound like the race of an incoming wave. then the high fling head of breaker spout white up the face of a groyne. suddenly a seventh wave break and spread the shape of it foam like a plume overtop all the others. 
that s one of our torpilleurs what you call trench sweeper say the observer among the whisper leaf. 
some one cross the platform to consult the map with it range. a blister outbreak of white smoke rise a little beyond the large plume. it be a though the tide have strike a reef out yonder. 
then a new voice of tremendous volume lift itself out of a lull that follow. somebody laugh. evidently the voice be know. 
that be not for u a gunner say. they be be wake up from he name a distant french position. so and so be attend to them there. we go on with our usual work. look. another torpilleur. 
the barbarian. 
again a big plume rise. and again the light shell break at their appoint distance beyond it. the smoke die away on that stretch of trench a the foam of a swell dy in the angle of a harbour wall and break out afresh half a mile low down. in it apparent laziness in it awful deliberation and it quick spasm of wrath it be more like the work of wave than of men. and our high platform s gentle sway and glide be exactly the motion of a ship drift with u toward that shore. 
the usual work. only the usual work the officer explain. sometimes it be here. sometimes above or below u. i have be here since may. 
a little sunshine flood the stricken landscape and make it chemical yellow look more foul. a detachment of men move out on a road which run toward the french trench and then vanish at the foot of a little rise. other men appear move toward u with that concentration of purpose and bear show in both army when dinner be at hand. they look like people who have be dig hard. 
the same work. always the same work. the officer say. and you could walk from here to the sea or to switzerland in that ditch and you ll find the same work go on everywhere. it isn t war. 
it s good than that say another. it s the eat up of a people. they come and they fill the trench and they die and they die. and they send more and those die. we do the same of course but look. 
he point to the large deliberate smoke head renew themselves along that yellow beach. that be the frontier of civilization. they have all civilization against them those brute yonder. it s not the local victory of the old war that we re after. it s the barbarian all the barbarian. now you ve see the whole thing in little. come and look at our child. 
soldier in cave. 
we leave that tall tree whose fruit be death ripen and distribute at the tingle of small bell. the observer return to his map and calculation. the telephone boy stiffen up beside his exchange a the amateur go out of his life. some one call down through the branch to ask who be attend to belial let u say for i could not catch the gun s name. it seem to belong to that terrific new voice which have lift itself for the second or third time. it appear from the reply that if belial talk too long he would be deal with from another point mile away. 
the troop we come down to see be at rest in a chain of cave which have begin life a quarry and have be fit up by the army for it own us. there be underground corridor ante chamber rotunda and ventilate shaft with a bewilder play of cross light so that wherever you look you saw goya s picture of men at arm. 
every soldier ha some of the old maid in him and rejoice in all the gadget and device of his own invention. death and wound come by nature but to lie dry sleep soft and keep yourself clean by forethought and contrivance be art and in all thing the frenchman be gloriously an artist. 
moreover the french officer seem a mother keen on their men a their men be brother fond of them. maybe the possessive form of address. mon general mon capitaine help the idea which our men cloke in other and curt phrase. and those soldier like ours have be weld for month in one furnace. a an officer say. half our order now need not be give. experience make u think together. i believe too that if a french private ha an idea and they be full of idea it reach his c. quick than it doe with u. 
the sentinel hound. 
the overwhelm impression be the brilliant health and vitality of these men and the quality of their breed. they bore themselves with swing and rampant delight in life while their voice a they talk in the side cavern among the stand of arm be the control voice of civilization. yet a the light pierce the gloom they look like bandit divide the spoil. one picture though far from war stay with me. a perfectly build dark skin young giant have peel himself out of his blue coat and have bring it down with a swish upon the shoulder of a half strip comrade who be kneel at his foot with some footgear. they stand against a background of semi luminous blue haze through which glimmer a pile of coppery straw half cover by a red blanket. by divine accident of light and pose it st. martin give his cloak to the beggar. there be score of picture in these gallery notably a rock hew chapel where the red of the cross on the rough canvas altar cloth glow like a ruby. further inside the cave we find a row of little rock cut kennel each inhabit by one wise silent dog. their duty begin in at night with the sentinel and listen post. and believe me a proud instructor my fellow here know the difference between the noise of our shell and the boche shell. 
when we come out into the open again there be good opportunity for this study. voice and wing meet and pass in the air and perhaps one strong young tree have not be bend quite so far across the picturesque park drive when we first go that way. 
oh yes say an officer shell have to fall somewhere and he add with fine toleration it be after all against u that the boche direct them. but come you and look at my dig out. it s the most superior of all possible dig out. 
no. come and look at our mess. it s the ritz of these part. and they joyously tell how they have get or procure the various fitting and elegancies while hand stretch out of the gloom to shake and men nod welcome and greet all through that cheery brotherhood in the wood. 
work in the field. 
the voice and the wing be still busy after lunch when the car slip past the tea house in the drive and come into a country where woman and child work among the crop. there be large raw shell hole by the wayside or in the midst of field and often a cottage or a villa have be smash a a bonnet box be smash by an umbrella. that must be part of belial s work when he bellow so truculently among the hill to the north. 
we be look for a town that life under shell fire. the regular road to it be report unhealthy not that the woman and child seem to care. we take byway of which certain expose height and corner be lightly blind by wind brake of dry tree top. here the shell hole be rather thick on the grind. but the woman and the child and the old men go on with their work with the cattle and the crop. and where a house have be break by shell the rubbish be collect in a neat pile and where a room or two still remain usable it be inhabit and the tattered window curtain flutter a proudly a any flag. and time be when i use to denounce young france because it try to kill itself beneath my car wheel. and the fat old woman who cross road without warn. and the specially deaf old men who sleep in cart on the wrong side of the road. now i could take off my hat to every single soul of them but that one cannot traverse a whole land bareheaded. the near we come to our town the few be the people till at last we halt in a well build suburb of pave street where there be no life at all. 
a wreck town. 
the stillness be a terrible a the spread of the quick busy weed between the pave stone. the air smelt of pound mortar and crush stone. the sound of a footfall echo like the drop of a pebble in a well. at first the horror of wreck apartment house and big shop lay open make one waste energy in anger. it be not seemly that room should be tear out of the side of building a one tear the soft heart out of english bread. that villa roof should lie across iron gate of private garage or that draw room door should flap alone and disconnect between two emptiness of twist girder. the eye weary of the repeat pattern that burst shell make on stone wall a the mouth sicken of the taste of mortar and char timber. one quarter of the place have be shell nearly level. the facade of the house stand doorless roofless and windowless like stage scenery. this be near the cathedral which be always a favourite mark for the heathen. they have gash and rip the side of the cathedral itself so that the bird fly in and out at will. they have smash hole in the roof. knock huge cantle out of the buttress and pit and star the pave square outside. they be at work too that very afternoon though i do not think the cathedral be their objective for the moment. we walk to and fro in the silence of the street and beneath the whir wing overhead. presently a young woman keep to the wall cross a corner. an old woman open a shutter. how it jar. and speak to her. the silence close again but it seem to me that i hear a sound of sing the sort of chant one hear in nightmare city of voice cry from underground. 
in the cathedral. 
nonsense say an officer. who should be sing here. we circle the cathedral again and saw what pavement stone can do against their own city when the shell jerk them upward. but there be sing after all on the other side of a little door in the flank of the cathedral. we look in doubt and saw at least a hundred folk mostly woman who kneel before the altar of an unwrecked chapel. we withdraw quietly from that holy grind and it be not only the eye of the french officer that fill with tear. then there come an old old thing with a prayer book in her hand patter across the square evidently late for service. 
and who be those woman. i ask. 
some be caretaker. people who have still little shop here. there be one quarter where you can buy thing. there be many old people too who will not go away. they be of the place you see. 
and this bombardment happen often. i say. 
it happen always. would you like to look at the railway station. of course it ha not be so bombard a the cathedral. 
we go through the gross nakedness of street without people till we reach the railway station which be very fairly knock about but a my friend say nothing like a much a the cathedral. then we have to cross the end of a long street down which the boche could see clearly. a one glance up it one perceive how the weed to whom men s war be the truce of god have come back and be well establish the whole length of it watch by the long perspective of open empty window. 
ii. 
the nation s spirit and a new inheritance. 
we leave that stricken but undefeated town dodge a few mile down the road beside which the woman tend their cow and drop into a place on a hill where a moroccan regiment of many experience be in billet. 
they be mohammedan bafflingly like half a dozen of our indian frontier type though they speak no accessible tongue. they have of course turn the farm building where they lay into a little bite of africa in colour and smell. they have be gas in the north. shoot over and shoot down and set up to be shell again. and their officer talk of north african war that we have never hear of sultry day against long odds in the desert year ago. afterward be it not so with you also. we get our best recruit from the tribe we have fight. these men be child. they make no trouble. they only want to go where cartridge be burn. they be of the few race to whom fight be a pleasure. 
and how long have you deal with them. 
a long time a long time. i help to organize the corp. i be one of those whose heart be in africa. he speak slowly almost feel for his french word and give some order. i shall not forget his eye a he turn to a huge brown afreedee like mussulman hunker down beside his accoutrement. he have two side to his head that beard burn slow speak officer meet and part with in an hour. 
the day close. after an amaze interlude in the chateau of a dream which be all glassy pond stately tree and vista of white and gold saloon. the proprietor be somebody s chauffeur at the front and we drink to his excellent health. at a little village in a twilight full of the petrol of many car and the wholesome flavour of healthy troop. there be no good guide to camp than one s own thoughtful nose. and though i poke mine everywhere in no place then or late do it strike that vile betray taint of underfed unclean men. and the same with the horse. 
the line that never sleep. 
it be difficult to keep an edge after hour of fresh air and experience. so one doe not get the most from the most interest part of the day the dinner with the local headquarter. here the professional meet the line the gunner the intelligence with stupefy photo plan of the enemy s trench. the supply. the staff who collect and note all thing and be very properly chaff. and be sure the interpreter who by force of question prisoner naturally develop into a sadducee. it be their little aside to each other the slang and the half word which if one understand instead of blink drowsily at one s plate would give the day s history in little. but tire and the difficulty of a sister. not a foreign. tongue cloud everything and one go to billet amid a murmur of voice the rush of single car through the night the passage of battalion and behind it all the echo of the deep voice call one to the other along the line that never sleep. 

the ridge with the scatter pine might have hide child at play. certainly a horse would have be quite visible but there be no hint of gun except a semaphore which announce it be forbid to pas that way a the battery be fire. the boche must have look for that battery too. the grind be pit with shell hole of all calibre some of them a fresh a mole cast in the misty damp morning. others where the poppy have grow from seed to flower all through the summer. 
and where be the gun. i demand at last. 
they be almost under one s hand their ammunition in cellar and dig out beside them. a far a one can make out the gun ha no pet name. the bayonet be rosalie the virgin of bayonne but the the watchful nurse of the trench and little sister of the line seem to be always soixante quinze. even those who love her best do not insist that she be beautiful. her merit be french logic directness simplicity and the supreme gift of occasionality. she be equal to everything on the spur of the moment. one see and study the few appliance which make her do what she doe and one feel that any one could have invent her. 
famous french s. 
a a matter of fact say a commandant anybody or rather everybody do. the general idea be after such and such system the patent of which have expire and we improve it. the breech action with slight modification be somebody else s. the sight be perhaps a little special. and so be the traverse but at bottom it be only an assembly of variation and arrangement. 
that of course be all that shakespeare ever get out of the alphabet. the french artillery make their own gun a he make his play. it be just a simple a that. 
there be nothing go on for the moment. it s too misty say the commandant. i fancy that the boche be a a rule methodical amateur be introduce to battery in the boche s interval. at least there be hour healthy and unhealthy which vary with each position. but the commandant reflect a moment there be a place and a distance. let u say. he give a range. 
the gun server stand back with the bore contempt of the professional for the layman who intrude on his mystery. other civilian have come that way before have see and grin and compliment and go their way leave the gunner high up on the bleak hillside to grill or mildew or freeze for week and month. then she speak. her voice be high pitch it seem than ours with a more shrewish tang to the speed shell. her recoil be a swift and a graceful a the shrug of a french woman s shoulder. the empty case leap forth and clang against the trail. the top of two or three pine fifty yard away nod knowingly to each other though there be no wind. 
they ll be bother down below to know the mean of our single shoot. we don t give them one dose at a time a a rule somebody laugh. 
we wait in the fragrant silence. nothing come back from the mist that clog the low ground though no shell of this war be ever launch with more earnest prayer that it might do hurt. 
then they talk about the life of gun. what number of round some will stand and others will not. how soon one can make two good gun out of three spoil one and what crazy luck sometimes go with a single shoot or a blind salvo. 
lesson from the boche. 
a shell must fall somewhere and by the law of average occasionally light straight a a home pigeon on the one spot where it can wreck most. then earth open for yard around and men must be dig out some merely breathless who shake their ear swear and carry on and others whose soul have go loose among terror. these have to be deal with a their psychology demand and the french officer be a good psychologist. one of them say. our national psychology ha change. i do not recognize it myself. 
what make the change. 
the boche. if he have be quiet for another twenty year the world must have be his rotten but all his. now he be save the world. 
how. 
because he ha show u what evil be. we you and i england and the rest have begin to doubt the existence of evil. the boche be save u. 
then we have another look at the animal in it trench a little near this time than before and quiet on account of the mist. pick up the chain anywhere you please you shall find the same observation post table map observer and telephonist. the same always hide always ready gun. and same vex foreshore of trench smoke and shake from switzerland to the sea. the handle of the war vary with the nature of the country but the tool be unaltered. one look upon them at last with the same weariness of wonder a the eye receive from endless repetition of egyptian hieroglyphic. a long low profile with a lump to one side mean the field gun and it attendant ammunition case. a circle and slot stand for an observation post. the trench be a bend line stud with vertical plume of explosion. the great gun of position come and go on their motor repeat themselves a scarab. and man himself be a small blue smudge no large than a foresight crawl and creep or watch and run among all these terrific symbol. 
tragedy of rheims. 
but there be no hieroglyphic for rheims no blunt of the mind at the abomination commit on the cathedral there. the thing peer upward maim and blind from out of the utter wreckage of the archbishop s palace on the one side and dust heap of crumble house on the other. they shell a they still shell it with high explosive and with incendiary shell so that the statue and the stonework in place be burn the colour of raw flesh. the gargoyle be smash. statue crocket and spire tumble. wall split and tear. window thrust out and tracery obliterate. wherever one look at the torture pile there be mutilation and defilement and yet it have never more of a soul than it ha to day. 
inside. cover yourselves gentleman say the sacristan this place be no long consecrate. everything be sweep clear or burn out from end to end except two candlestick in front of the niche where joan of arc s image use to stand. there be a french flag there now. [and the last time i saw rheims cathedral be in a spring twilight when the great west window glow and the only light within be those of candle which some penitent english have light in joan s honour on those same candlestick. ] the high altar be cover with floor carpet. the pavement tile be crack and jar out by the rubbish that have fall from above the floor be gritty with dust of glass and powder stone little twist of lead from the window and iron fragment. two great door have be blow inwards by the blast of a shell in the archbishop s garden till they have bend grotesquely to the curve of a cask. there they have jam. the window but the record ha be make and will be keep by good hand than mine. it will last through the generation in which the teuton be cut off from the fellowship of mankind all the long still year when this war of the body be at an end and the real war begin. rheims be but one of the altar which the heathen have put up to commemorate their own death throughout all the world. it will serve. there be a mark well know by now which they have leave for a visible seal of their doom. when they first set the place alight some hundred of their wound be be tend in the cathedral. the french save a many a they could but some have to be leave. among them be a major who lay with his back against a pillar. it ha be ordain that the sign of his torment should remain an outline of both leg and half a body print in greasy black upon the stone. there be very many people who hope and pray that the sign will be respect at least by our child s child. 
iron nerve and faith. 
and in the meantime rheims go about what business it may have with that iron nerve and endurance and faith which be the new inheritance of france. there be agony enough when the big shell come in. there be pain and terror among the people. and always fresh desecration to watch and suffer. the old men and the woman and the child drink of that cup daily and yet the bitterness doe not enter into their soul. mere word of admiration be impertinent but the exquisite quality of the french soul ha be the marvel to me throughout. they say themselves when they talk. we do not know what our nation be. frankly we do not expect it ourselves. but the thing come and you see we go on. 
or a a woman put it more logically what else can we do. remember we know the boche in when you do not. we know what he ha do in the last year. this be not war. it be against wild beast that we fight. there be no arrangement possible with wild beast. this be the one vital point which we in england must realize. we be deal with animal who have scientifically and philosophically remove themselves inconceivably outside civilization. when you have hear a few only a few tale of their do you begin to understand a little. when you have see rheims you understand a little more. when you have look long enough at the face of the woman you be incline to think that the woman will have a large say in the final judgment. they have earn it a thousand time. 
iii. 
battle spectacle and a review. 
travel with two chauffeur be not the luxury it look. since there be only one of you and there be always another of those iron men to relieve the wheel. nor can i decide whether an ex professor of the german tongue or an ex roadracer who ha live six year abroad or a marechal de logis or a brigadier make the most thrust driver through three mile stretch of military traffic repeat at half hour interval. sometimes it be motor ambulance string all along a level. or supply. or those eternal big gun come round corner with tree chain on their long back to puzzle aeroplane and their leafy big shell limber snort behind them. in the rare breathe space men with roller and road metal attack the road. in peace the road of france thank to the motor be none too good. in war they stand the incessant traffic far good than they do with the tourist. my impression after some seven hundred mile print off on me at between and kilometre be of uniform excellence. nor do i come upon any smash or breakdown in that distance and they be certainly try them hard. nor which be the great marvel do we kill anybody. though we do miracle down the street to avoid babe kitten and chicken. the land be use to every detail of war and to it grime and horror and make shift but also to war s unbounded courtesy kindness and long suffer and the gaiety that come thank god to balance overwhelm material loss. 
farm life amidst war. 
there be a village that have be stamp flat till it look old than pompeii. there be not three roof leave nor one whole house. in most place you saw straight into the cellar. the hop be ripe in the grave dot field round about. they have be bring in and pile in the near outline of a dwell. woman sit on chair on the pavement pick the good smell bundle. when they have finish one they reach back and pull out another through the window hole behind them talk and laugh the while. a cart have to be maneuver out of what have be a farmyard to take the hop to market. a thick broad fair haired wench of the sort that millet draw fling all her weight on a speak and bring the cart forward into the street. then she shake herself and hand on hip dance a little defiant jig in her sabot a she go back to get the horse. another girl come across a bridge. she be precisely of the opposite type slender creamy skin and delicate feature. she carry a brand new broom over her shoulder through that desolation and bore herself with the pride and grace of queen iseult. 
the farm girl come out lead the horse and a the two young thing pass they nod and smile at each other with the delicate tangle of the hop vine at their foot. 
the gun speak earnestly in the north. that be the argonne where the crown prince be busily get rid of a few thousand of his father s faithful subject in order to secure himself the reversion of his father s throne. no man like lose his job and when at long last the inner history of this war come to be write we may find that the people we mistake for principal and prime agent be only average incompetent move all hell to avoid dismissal. for it be absolutely true that when a man sell his soul to the devil he doe it for the price of half nothing. 
watch the gun fire. 
it must have be a hot fight. a village wreck a be usual along this line open on it from a hillside that overlook an italian landscape of carefully draw hill stud with small village a plain with a road and a river in the foreground and an all reveal afternoon light upon everything. the hill smoke and shake and bellow. an observation balloon climb up to see. while an aeroplane which have nothing to do with the strife but be merely train a beginner duck and swoop on the edge of the plain. two rise pink pillar of crumble masonry guard some carefully trim evergreen on a lawn half bury in rubbish represent an hotel where the crown prince have once stay. all up the hillside to our right the foundation of house lay out like a bite of tripe with the sunshine in their square hollow. suddenly a band begin to play up the hill among some tree. and an officer of local guard in the new steel anti shrapnel helmet which be like the seventeenth century sallet suggest that we should climb and get a good view. he be a kindly man and in speak english have discover. a i do when speak french. that it be simple to stick to one gender. his choice be the feminine and the boche describe a she throughout make me think good of myself which be the essence of friendship. we climb a flight of old stone step for generation the playground of little child and find a ruin church and a battalion in billet recreate themselves with excellent music and a little horseplay on the out edge of the crowd. the trouble in the hill be none of their business for that day. 
still high up on a narrow path among the tree stand a priest and three or four officer. they watch the battle and claim the great burst of smoke for one side or the other at the same time a they keep an eye on the flicker aeroplane. ours they say half under their breath. theirs. no not ours that one theirs. that fool be bank too steep. that s boche shrapnel. they always burst it high. that s our big gun behind that out hill. he ll drop his machine in the street if he doesn t take care. there go a trench sweeper. those last two be theirs but that_ it be a full roar be ours. 
behind the german line. 
the valley hold and increase the sound till they seem to hit our hillside like a sea. 
a change of light show a village exquisitely pencil atop of a hill with reddish haze at it foot. 
what be that place. i ask. 
the priest reply in a voice a deep a an organ. that be saint it be in the boche line. it condition be pitiable. 
the thunder and the smoke roll up and diminish and renew themselves but the small child romp up and down the old stone step. the beginner s aeroplane unsteadily chase it own shadow over the field. and the soldier in billet ask the band for their favourite tune. 
say the lieutenant of local guard a the car go on. she play tipperary. 
and she do to an accompaniment of heavy piece in the hill which follow u into a town all ring with enormous searchlight french and boche together scowl at each other beneath the star. 

it happen about that time that lord kitchener with general joffre review a french army corp. 
we come on it in a vast dip of grind under grey cloud a one come suddenly on water. for it lay out in misty blue lake of men mix with dark patch like osier and undergrowth of gun horse and wagon. a straight road cut the landscape in two along it murmur front. 
veteran of the war. 
it be a though cadmus have sow the dragon s teeth not in orderly furrow but broadcast till horrify by what arise he have empty out the whole bag and flee. but these be no new warrior. the record of their mere pitch battle would have satiate a napoleon. their regiment and battery have learn to achieve the impossible a a matter of routine and in twelve month they have scarcely for a week lose direct contact with death. we go down the line and look into the eye of those men with the use bayonet and rifle. the pack that could almost stow themselves on the shoulder that would be strange without them. at the splash gun on their repair wheel and the easy work limber. one could feel the strength and power of the mass a one feel the flush of heat from off a sunbaked wall. when the general car arrive there there be no loud word or gallop about. the lake of men gather into straight edge battalion. the battery align a little. a squadron rein back or spur up. but it be all a swiftly smooth a the certainty with which a man use to the pistol draw and level it at the require moment. a few peasant woman saw the general alight. the aeroplane which have be skim low a swallow along the front of the line. theirs must have be a superb view. ascend leisurely and wait on like hawk. then follow the inspection and one saw the two figure tall and short grow small side by side along the white road till far off among the cavalry they enter their car again and move along the horizon to another rise of grey green plain. 
the army will move across where you be stand. get to a flank some one say. 
an army in motion. 
we be no more than well clear of that immobile host when it all surge forward head by mass band play a tune that sound like the very pulse of france. 
the two general with their staff and the french minister for war be on foot near a patch of very green lucerne. they make about twenty figure in all. the car be little grey block against the grey skyline. there be nothing else in all that great plain except the army. no sound but the change note of the aeroplane and the blunt impression rather than noise of foot of men on soft grind. they come over a slight ridge so that one saw the curve of it first furred then grass with the tip of bayonet which immediately grow to full height and then beneath them pour the wonderful infantry. the speed the thrust the drive of that broad blue mass be like a tide race up an arm of the sea. and how such speed could go with such weight and how such weight could be in itself so absolutely under control fill one with terror. all the while the band on a far headland be tell them and tell them. a if they do not know. of the passion and gaiety and high heart of their own land in the speech that only they could fully understand. to hear the music of a country be like hear a woman think aloud. 
what be the tune. i ask of an officer beside me. 
my faith i can t recall for the moment. i ve march to it often enough though. sambre et meuse perhaps. look. there go my battalion. those chasseurs yonder. 
he know of course. but what could a strange identify in that earth shake passage of thirty thousand. 
artillery and cavalry. 
the note behind the ridge change to something deep. 
ah. our gun say an artillery officer and smile tolerantly on the last blue wave of the line already beat toward the horizon. 
they come twelve abreast one hundred and fifty gun free for the moment to take the air in company behind their team. and next week would see them hide singly or in lurk confederacy by mountain and marsh and forest or the wreck habitation of men where. 
the big gun follow them with that long nose air of detachment peculiar to the breed. the gunner at my side make no comment. he be content to let his arm speak for itself but when one big gun in a sticky place fell out of alignment for an instant i saw his eyebrow contract. the artillery pass on with the same inhuman speed and silence a the line. and the cavalry s shatter trumpet close it all. 
they be like our cavalry in that their horse be in high condition and they talk hopefully of get past the barb wire one of these day and come into their own. meantime they be employ on various work a requisite and they all sympathize with our rough rider of dragoon who flatly refuse to take off his spur in the trench. if he have to die a a damn infantryman he wasn t go to be bury a such. a troop horse of a flank squadron decide that he have have enough of war and jib like lot s wife. his rider. we all watch him. range about till he find a stick which he use but without effect. then he get off and lead the horse which be evidently what the brute want for when the man remount the jib begin again. the last we saw of him be one immensely lonely figure lead one bad but happy horse across an absolutely empty world. think of his reception the sole man of who have fall out. 
the boche a mr. smith. 
the commander of that army corp come up to salute. the car go away with the general and the minister for war. the army pass out of sight over the ridge to the north. the peasant woman stoop again to their work in the field and wet mist shut down on all the plain. but one tingle with the electricity that have pass. now one know what the solidarity of civilization mean. late on the civilize nation will know more and will wonder and laugh together at their old blindness. when lord kitchener go down the line before the march past they say that he stop to speak to a general who have be marchand s chief of staff at the time of fashoda. and fashoda be one of several case when civilization be very nearly maneuver into fight with itself for the king of prussia a the say go. the all embrace vileness of the boche be best realize from french soil where they have have large experience of it. and yet a some one observe we ought to have know that a race who have bring anonymous letter write to it high pitch in their own dirty court affair would certainly use the same method in their foreign politics. why didn t we realize. 
for the same reason another respond that society do not realize that the late mr. smith of your england who marry three wife buy bath in advance for each of them and when they have leave him all their money drown them one by one. 
and be the bath by any chance call denmark austria and france in. a third ask. 
no they be respectable british tub. but until mr. smith have drown his third wife people didn t get suspicious. they argue that men don t do such thing. that sentiment be the criminal s best protection. 
iv. 
the spirit of the people. 
we pass into the zone of another army and a hillier country where the border village lay more shelter. here and there a town and the field round it give u a glimpse of the furious industry with which france make and handle material and troop. with her a with u the wound officer of experience go back to the drill grind to train the new levy. but it be always the little crowd defiant village and the civil population wait unweariedly and cheerfully on the unwearied cheerful army that go close to the heart. take these picture catch almost anywhere during a journey. a knot of little child in difficulty with the village water tap or high handle pump. a soldier beard and fatherly or young and slim and therefore rather shy of the big girl chaff come forward and lift the pail or swing the handle. his reward from the small babe swing high in air or if he be an old man press against his knee be a kiss. then nobody laugh. 
or a fat old lady make oration against some wicked young soldier who she say know what ha happen to a certain bottle of wine. and i mean it for all yes for all of you this even instead of the thief who steal it. yes i tell you steal it. the whole street hear her. so doe the officer who pretend not to and the amuse half battalion up the road. the young men express penitence. she growl like a thunderstorm but soften at last cuff and drive them affectionately before her. they be all one family. 
or a girl at work with horse in a plough field that be dot with graf. the machine must avoid each sacred plot. so hand on the plough stilt her hair fly forward she shout and wrench till her little brother run up and swing the team out of the furrow. every aspect and detail of life in france seem overlay with a smooth patina of long continue war everything except the spirit of the people and that be a fresh and glorious a the sight of their own land in sunshine. 
a city and woman. 
we find a city among hill which know itself to be a prize greatly covet by the kaiser. for truly it be a pleasant a desirable and an insolent city. it street be full of life. it boast an establishment almost a big a harrod s and full of buyer and it woman dress and shoe themselves with care and grace a befit lady who at any time may be rip into rag by bomb from aeroplane. and there be another city whose population seem to be all soldier in train. and yet another give up to big gun and ammunition an extraordinary sight. 
after that we come to a little town of pale stone which an army have make it headquarter. it look like a plain woman who have faint in public. it have rejoice in many public institution that be turn into hospital and office. the wound limp it wide dusty street detachment of infantry go through it swiftly. and utterly bore motor lorry cruise up and down roar i suppose for something to look at or to talk to. in the centre of it i find one janny or rather his marble bust brood over a minute iron rail garden of half dry aster opposite a shut up school which it appear from the inscription janny have found somewhere in the arid thirty. it be precisely the sort of school that janny by the look of him would have invent. not even french adaptability could make anything of it. so janny have his school with a faint perfume of varnish all to himself in a hot stillness of use up air and little whirl of dust. and because that town seem so barren i meet there a french general whom i would have go very far to have encounter. he like the others have create and temper an army for certain work in a certain place and it hand have be heavy on the boche. we talk of what the french woman be and have do and be do and extol her for her goodness and her faith and her splendid courage. when we part i go back and make my profound apology to janny who must have have a mother. the pale overwhelm town do not now any long resemble a woman who have faint but one who must endure in public all manner of private woe and still with hand that never cease work keep her soul and be cleanly strong for herself and for her men. 
french officer. 
the gun begin to speak again among the hill that we dive into. the air grow chilly a we climb. forest and wet rock close round u in the mist to the sound of water trickle alongside. there be a tang of wet fern cut pine and the first breath of autumn when the road enter a tunnel and a new world alsace. 
say the governor of those part thoughtfully. the main thing be to get those factory chimney smoke again. they be do so in little flat and village all along. you win t see any girl because they re at work in the textile factory. yes it isn t a bad country for summer hotel but i m afraid it win t do for winter sport. we ve only a metre of snow and it doesn t lie except when you be haul gun up mountain. then of course it drift and freeze like davos. that s our new railway below there. pity it s too misty to see the view. 
but for his medal there be nothing in the governor to show that he be not english. he might have come straight from an indian frontier command. 
one notice this approximation of type in the high rank and many of the junior be cut out of the very same cloth a ours. they get whatever fun may be go. their performance be a incredible and outrageous a the language in which they describe them afterward be bald but convince and i overhear the tail end of a yarn tell by a child of twenty to some other babe. it be veil in the obscurity of the french tongue and the point be lose in shout of laughter but i imagine the subaltern among his equal display just a much reverence for his elder and better a our own boy do. the epilogue at least be a old a both army. 
and what do he say then. 
oh the usual thing. he hold his breath till i think he d burst. then he damn me in heap and i take good care to keep out of his sight till next day. 
but officially and in the high social atmosphere of headquarter their manner and their meekness be of the most admirable. there they attend devoutly on the wisdom of their senior who treat them so it seem with affectionate confidence. 
front that never sleep. 
when the day s report be in all along the front there be a man expert in the mean of thing who boil them down for that cold official digest which tell u that there be the usual grenade fight at. we make appreciable advance at &c. the original material come in sheaf and sheaf where individual character and temperament have full and amuse play. it be reduce for domestic consumption like an overwhelm electric current. otherwise we could not take it in. but at close range one realize that the front never sleep. never cease from try new idea and weapon which so soon a the boche think he ha master them be discard for new annoyance and bewilderment. 
the boche be above all thing observant and imitative say one who count quite a few boche dead on the front of his sector. when you present him with a new idea he think it over for a day or two. then he present his riposte. 
yes my general. that be exactly what he do to me when i do so and so. he be quite silent for a day. then he steal my patent. 
and you. 
i have a notion that he d do that so i have change the specification. 
thus speak the staff and so it be among the junior command down to the semi isolate post where boy napoleon live on their own through unbelievable adventure. they be inventive young devil these veteran of possess of the single ideal to kill which they follow with men a single mind a themselves. battlefield tactic do not exist. when a whole nation go to grind there can be none of the victory of the old bookish day. but there be always the kill the well scheme smash of a full trench the rush out and the mow down of it occupant. the unsuspicious battalion far in the rear locate after two night extreme risk alone among rubbish of masonry and wipe out a it eat or wash itself. and more rarely the body to body encounter with animal remove from the protection of their machinery when the bayonet get their chance. the boche doe not at all like meet men whose womenfolk he ha dishonour or mutilate or use a a protection against bullet. it be not that these men be angry or violent. they do not waste time in that way. they kill him. 
the business of war. 
the french be le reticent than we about atrocity commit by the boche because those atrocity form part of their life. they be not tuck away in report of commission and vaguely refer to a too awful. late on perhaps we shall be unreserved in our turn. but they do not talk of them with any babble heat or bleat or make funny little appeal to a public opinion that like the boche ha go underground. it occur to me that this must be because every frenchman ha his place and his chance direct or indirect to diminish the number of boche still alive. whether he lie out in a sandwich of damp earth or sweat the big gun up the crest behind the tree or bring the fat load barge into the very heart of the city where the shell wagon wait or spend his last cripple year at the harvest he be do his work to that end. 
if he be a civilian he may a he doe say thing about his government which after all be very like other popular government. a lifetime spend in watch how the cat jump doe not make lion tamer. but there be very little human rubbish knock about france to hind work or darken counsel. above all there be a thing call the honour of civilization to which france be attach. the mean man feel that he in his place be permit to help uphold it and i think bear himself therefore with new dignity. 
a contrast in type. 
this be write in a garden of smooth turf under a copper beech beside a glassy mill stream where soldier of alpine regiment be write letter home while the gun shout up and down the narrow valley. 
a great wolf hound who consider himself in charge of the old fashion farmhouse cannot understand why his master age six should be sit on the knee of the marechal de logis the iron man who drive the big car. 
but you be french little one. say the giant with a yearn arm round the child. 
yes very slowly mouth the french word. i can t speak french but i be french. 
the small face disappear in the big beard. 
somehow i can t imagine the marechal de logis kill baby even if his superior officer now sketch the scene be to order him. 

the great build must once have be a monastery. twilight soften it gaunt wing in an angle of which be collect fifty prisoner pick up among the hill behind the mist. 
they stand in some sort of military formation preparatory to be march off. they be dress in khaki the colour of gas grass that might have belong to any army. two wear spectacle and i count eight face of the fifty which be asymmetrical out of draw on one side. 
some of their late draft give u that type say the interpreter. one of them have be wound in the head and roughly bandage. the others seem all sound. most of them look at nothing but several be vividly alive with terror that cannot keep the eyelid still and a few waver on the grey edge of collapse. 
they be the breed which at the word of command have steal out to drown woman and child. have rap woman in the street at the word of command. and always at the word of command have spray petrol or squirt flame. or defile the property and person of their captive. they stand there outside all humanity. yet they be make in the liken of humanity. one realize it with a shock when the bandage creature begin to shiver and they shuffle off in response to the order of civilize men. 
v. 
life in trench on the mountain side. 
very early in the morning i meet alan breck with a half heal bullet scrape across the bridge of his nose and an alpine cap over one ear. his people a few hundred year ago have be scotch. he bore a scotch name and still recognize the head of his clan but his french occasionally run into german word for he be an alsatian on one side. 
this he explain be the very best country in the world to fight in. it s picturesque and full of cover. i m a gunner. i ve be here for month. it s lovely. 
it might have be the hill under mussoorie and what our car expect to do in it i could not understand. but the demon driver who have be a road racer take the h. p. mercedes and thread the narrow valley a well a occasional half swiss village full of alpine troop at a restrain thirty mile an hour. he shoot up a new make road more like mussoorie than ever and do not fall down the hillside even once. an ammunition mule of a mountain battery meet him at a tight corner and begin to climb a tree. 
see. there isn t another place in france where that could happen say alan. i tell you this be a magnificent country. 
the mule be haul down by his tail before he have reach the low branch and go on through the wood his ammunition box jinking on his back for all the world a though he be rejoin his battery at jutogh. one expect to meet the little hill people bend under their load under the forest gloom. the light the colour the smell of wood smoke pine needle wet earth and warm mule be all himalayan. only the mercedes be violently and loudly a strange. 
halt. say alan at last when she have do everything except imitate the mule. 
the road continue say the demon driver seductively. 
yes but they will hear you if you go on. stop and wait. we ve a mountain battery to look at. 
they be not at work for the moment and the commandant a grim and forceful man show me some detail of their construction. when we leave them in their bower it look like a hill priest s wayside shrine we hear them sing through the steep descend pine. they too like the s seem to have no pet name in the service. 
it be a poisonously blind country. the wood block all sense of direction above and around. the grind be at any angle you please and all sound be split up and muddle by the tree trunk which act a silencer. high above u the respectable all conceal forest have turn into sparse ghastly blue stick of timber an assembly of leper tree round a bald mountain top. that s where we re go say alan. isn t it an adorable country. 
trench. 
a machine gun loose a few shot in the fumble style of her kind when they feel for an open. a couple of rifle shot answer. they might have be half a mile away or a hundred yard below. an adorable country. we climb up till we find once again a complete tea garden of little sink house almost invisible in the brown pink recess of the thick forest. here the trench begin and with them for the next few hour life in two dimension length and breadth. you could have eat your dinner almost anywhere off the sweep dry grind for the steep slope favour drain there be no lack of timber and there be unlimited labour. it have make neat double length dig out where the wound could be lay in during their passage down the mountain side. well tend occasional latrine properly lime. dig out for sleep and eat. overhead protection and tool shed where need and a one come near the work face very clever cellar against trench sweeper. men pass on their business. a squad with a capture machine gun which they test in a shelter dip. armourer at their bench busy with sick rifle. fatigue party for straw ration and ammunition. long procession of single blue figure turn sideways between the brown sunless wall. one understand after a while the nightmare that lay hold of trench stale men when the dreamer wander for ever in those blind maze till after century of agonize flight he find himself stumble out again into the white blaze and horror of the mine front he who think he have almost reach home. 
in the front line. 
there be no tree above u now. their trunk lay along the edge of the trench build in with stone where necessary or sometimes overhang it in rag splinter or bushy top. bit of cloth not french show too in the uneven line of debris at the trench lip and some thoughtful soul have mark an unexploded boche trench sweeper a not to be touch. it be a young lawyer from paris who point that out to me. 
we meet the colonel at the head of an indescribable pit of ruin full of sunshine whose step run down a very steep hillside under the lee of an almost vertically plunge parapet. to the leave of that parapet the whole hillside be one gruel of smash tree split stone and powder soil. it might have be a rag picker s dump heap on a colossal scale. 
alan look at it critically. i think he have help to make it not long before. 
we re on the top of the hill now and the boche be below u say he. we give them a very fair sickener lately. 
this say the colonel be the front line. 
there be overhead guard against hand bomb which dispose me to believe him but what convince me most be a corporal urge u in whisper not to talk so loud. the men be at dinner and a good smell of food fill the trench. this be the first smell i have encounter in my long travel uphill a mix entirely wholesome flavour of stew leather earth and rifle oil. 
front line professional. 
a proportion of men be stand to arm while others eat. but dinner time be slack time even among animal and it be close on noon. 
the boche get their soup a few day ago some one whisper. i think of the pulverize hillside and hop it have be hot enough. 
we edge along the still trench where the soldier star with justify contempt i think upon the civilian who scuttle through their life for a few emotional minute in order to make word out of their blood. somehow it remind me of come in late to a play and incommode a long line of pack stall. the whisper dialogue be much the same. pardon. i beg your pardon monsieur. to the right monsieur. if monsieur will low his head. one see best from here monsieur and so on. it be their day and night long business carry through without display or heat or doubt or indecision. those who work work. those off duty not five foot behind them in the dig out be deep in their paper or their meal or their letter. while death stand ready at every minute to drop down into the narrow cut from out of the narrow strip of unconcerned sky. and for the good part of a week one have skirt hundred of mile of such a frieze. 
the loophole not in use be plug rather like old fashion hive. say the colonel remove a plug. here be the boche. look and you ll see their sandbag. through the jumble of rive tree and stone one saw what might have be a bite of green sack. they re about seven metre distant just here the colonel go on. that be true too. we enter a little fortalice with a cannon in it in an embrasure which at that moment strike me a unnecessarily vast even though it be partly close by a frail pack case lid. the colonel sit him down in front of it and explain the theory of this sort of redoubt. by the way he say to the gunner at last can t you find something good than that. he twitch the lid aside. i think it s too light. get a log of wood or something. 
handy trench sweeper. 
i love that colonel. he know his men and he know the boche have them mark down like bird. when he say they be beside dead tree or behind boulder sure enough there they be. but a i have say the dinner hour be always slack and even when we come to a place where a section of trench have be bash open by trench sweeper and it be recommend to duck and hurry nothing much happen. the uncanny thing be the absence of movement in the boche trench. sometimes one imagine that one smelt strange tobacco or hear a rifle bolt work after a shoot. otherwise they be a still a pig at noonday. 
we hold on through the maze past trench sweeper of a handy light pattern with their screw tail charge all ready. and a grave or so. and when i come on men who merely stand within easy reach of their rifle i know i be in the second line. when they lay frankly at ease in their dig out i know it be the third. a shoot gun would have sprinkle all three. 
no flat plain say alan. no hunt for gun position the hill be full of them and the trench close together and command each other. you see what a beautiful country it be. 
the colonel confirm this but from another point of view. war be his business a the still wood could testify but his hobby be his trench. he have tap the mountain stream and dig out a laundry where a man could wash his shirt and go up and be kill in it all in a morning. have drain the trench till a muddy stretch in them be an offence. and at the bottom of the hill. it look like a hydropathic establishment on the stage. he have create bath where half a battalion at a time could wash. he never tell me how all that country have be fight over a fiercely a ypres in the west. nor what blood have go down the valley before his trench push over the scalp mountain top. no. he sketch out new endeavour in earth and stone and tree for the comfort of his men on that populous mountain. 
and there come a priest who be a sub lieutenant out of a wood of snuff brown shadow and half veil trunk. would it please me to look at a chapel. it be all open to the hillside most tenderly and devoutly do in rustic work with reedings of peel branch and panel of moss and thatch st. hubert s own shrine. i saw the hunter who pass before it go to the chase on the far side of the mountain where their game lay. 

a bombard town. 
alan carry me off to tea the same even in a town where he seem to know everybody. he have spend the afternoon on another mountain top inspect gun position. whereby he have be shell a little marmite be the slang for it. there have be no serious marmitage and he have spot a boche position which be marmitable. 
and we may get shell now he add hopefully. they shell this town whenever they think of it. perhaps they ll shell u at tea. 
it be a quaintly beautiful little place with it mixture of french and german idea. it old bridge and gentle mind river between the cultivate hill. the sand bag cellar door the ruin house and the hole in the pavement look a unreal a the violence of a cinema against that soft and simple set. the people be abroad in the street and the little child be play. a big shell give notice enough for one to get to shelter if the shelter be near enough. that appear to be a much a any one expect in the world where one be shell and that world ha settle down to it. people s lip be a little firm the model of the brow be a little more pronounce and maybe there be a change in the expression of the eye. but nothing that a casual afternoon caller need particularly notice. 
case for hospital. 
the house where we take tea be the big house of the place old and massive a treasure house of ancient furniture. it have everything that the moderate heart of man could desire garden garage outbuilding and the air of peace that go with beauty in age. it stand over a high cellarage and opposite the cellar door be a brand new blindage of earth pack between timber. the cellar be a hospital with it bed and store and under the electric light the orderly wait ready for the case to be carry down out of the street. 
yes they be all civil case say he. 
they come without much warn a woman gash by fall timber. a child with it temple crush by a fly stone. an urgent amputation case and so on. one never know. bombardment the boche text book say be design to terrify the civil population so that they may put pressure on their politician to conclude peace. in real life men be very rarely soothe by the sight of their woman be torture. 
we take tea in the hall upstairs with a propriety and an interchange of compliment that suit the little occasion. there be no attempt to disguise the existence of a bombardment but it be not allow to overweigh talk of light matter. i know one guest who sit through it a near a might be inarticulate with wonder. but he be english and when alan ask him whether he have enjoy himself he say. oh yes. thank you very much. 
nice people aren t they. alan go on. 
oh very nice. and and such good tea. 
he manage to convey a few of his sentiment to alan after dinner. 
but what else could the people have do. say he. they be french. 
vi. 
the common task of a great people. 
this be the end of the line say the staff officer kind and most patient of chaperon. it buttress itself on a fortress among hill. beyond that the silence be more awful than the mix noise of business to the westward. in mileage on the map the line must be between four and five hundred mile. in actual trench work many time that distance. it be too much to see at full length. the mind doe not readily break away from the obsession of it entirety or the grip of it detail. one visualize the thing afterwards a a white hot gash worm all across france between intolerable sound and light under ceaseless blast of whirl dirt. nor be it any relief to lose oneself among wilderness of pile stone timbering concrete and wire work or incalculable quantity of soil throw up raw to the light and cloak by the change season a the unburied dead be cloak. 
yet there be no word to give the essential simplicity of it. it be the rampart put up by man against the beast precisely a in the stone age. if it go all that keep u from the beast go with it. one see this at the front a clearly a one see the french village behind the german line. sometimes people steal away from them and bring word of what they endure. 
where the rifle and the bayonet serve men use those tool along the front. where the knife give good result they go in behind the hand grenade with the naked twelve inch knife. each race be suppose to fight in it own way but this war ha pass beyond all the know way. they say that the belgian in the north settle account with a certain dry passion which ha vary very little since their agony begin. some section of the english line have produce a soft voice rather reserve type which doe it work with it mouth shut. the french carry an edge to their fight a precision and a dreadful knowledge couple with an insensibility to shock unlike anything one ha imagine of mankind. to be sure there ha never be like provocation for never since the aesir go about to bind the fenris wolf ha all the world unite to bind the beast. 
the last i saw of the front be alan breck speed back to his gun position among the mountain. and i wonder what delight of what household the lad must have be in the old day. 
support and reserve. 
then we have to work our way department by department against the tide of men behind the line support and their support reserve and reserve of reserve a well a the mass in train. they flood town and village and when we try short cut we find them in every by lane. have you see mount men read their home letter with the rein throw on the horse neck move in absorb silence through a street which almost say hush. to it dog. or meet in a forest a procession of perfectly new big gun apparently take themselves from the foundry to the front. 
in spite of their love of drama there be not much window dress in the french character. the boche who be the priest of the high counter jumpery would have have half the neutral press out in car to advertise these vast spectacle of men and material. but the same instinct a make their rich farmer keep to their smock make the french keep quiet. 
this be our affair they argue. everybody concern be take part in it. like the review you saw the other day there be no spectator. 
but it might be of advantage if the world know. 
mine be a foolish remark. there be only one world to day the world of the ally. each of them know what the others be do and the rest doesn t matter. this be a curious but delightful fact to realize at first hand. and think what it will be late when we shall all circulate among each other and open our heart and talk it over in a brotherhood more intimate than the tie of blood. 
i lay that night at a little french town and be keep awake by a man somewhere in the hot still darkness howl aloud from the pain of his wound. i be glad that he be alone for when one man give way the others sometimes follow. yet the single note of misery be bad than the bay and gulp of a whole ward. i wish that a delegation of striker could have hear it. 

that a civilian should be in the war zone at all be a fair guarantee of his good faith. it be when he be outside the zone unchaperoned that question begin and the permit be look into. if these be irregular but one doesn t care to contemplate it. if regular there be still a few counter check. a the sergeant at the railway station say when he help u out of an impasse. you will realize that it be the most undesirable person whose paper be of the most regular. it be their business you see. the commissary of police be at the hotel de ville if you will come along for the little formality. myself i use to keep a shop in paris. my god these provincial town be desolate. 
paris and no foreigner. 
he would have love his paris a we find it. life be renew itself in the street whose draw and proportion one could never notice before. people s eye and the woman s especially seem to be set to a long range a more comprehensive gaze. one would have say they come from the sea or the mountain where thing be few and simple rather than from house. best of all there be no foreigner the beloved city for the first time be french throughout from end to end. it felt like come back to an old friend s house for a quiet talk after he have get rid of a houseful of visitor. the functionary and police have drop their mask of official politeness and be just friendly. at the hotel so like school two day before the term begin the impersonal valet the chambermaid of the set two franc smile and the unbend head waiter have give place to one s own brother and sister full of one s own anxiety. my son be an aviator monsieur. i could have claim italian nationality for him at the begin but he would not have it. both my brother monsieur be at the war. one be dead already. and my fiance i have not hear from him since march. he be cook in a battalion. here be the wine list monsieur. yes both my son and a nephew and i have no news of them not a word of news. my god we all suffer these day. and so too among the shop the mere statement of the loss or the grief at the heart but never a word of doubt never a whimper of despair. 
now why ask a shopkeeper doe not our government or your government or both our government send some of the british army to paris. i assure you we should make them welcome. 
perhaps i begin you might make them too welcome. 
he laugh. we should make them a welcome a our own army. they would enjoy themselves. i have a vision of british officer each with ninety day pay to his credit and a damsel or two at home shop consumedly. 
and also say the shopkeeper the moral effect on paris to see more of your troop would be very good. 
but i saw a quite english provost marshal lose himself in chase of defaulter of the new army who know their paris. still there be something to be say for the idea to the extent of a virtuous brigade or so. at present the english officer in paris be a scarce bird and he explain at once why he be and what he be do there. he must have good reason. i suggest teeth to an acquaintance. no good he grumble. they ve think of that too. behind our line be simply crawl with dentist now. 
a people transfigure. 
if one ask after the people that give dinner and dance last year where every one talk so brilliantly of such vital thing one get in return the address of hospital. those pleasant hostess and maiden seem to be in charge of department or on duty in ward or kitchen or scullery. some of the hospital be in paris. their staff might have one hour a day in which to see visitor. others be up the line and liable to be shell or bomb. 
i recall one frenchwoman in particular because she have once explain to me the necessity of civilize life. these include a masseuse a manicurist and a maid to look after the lapdog. she be employ now and ha be for month past on the disinfection and repair of soldier clothe. there be no need to ask after the men one have know. still there be no sense of desolation. they have go on. the others be get ready. 
all france work outward to the front precisely a an endless chain of fire bucket work toward the conflagration. leave the fire behind you and go back till you reach the source of supply. you will find no break no pause no apparent haste but never any slacken. everybody ha his or her bucket little or big and nobody dispute how they should be use. it be a people possess of the precedent and tradition of war for existence accustom to hard live and hard labour sanely economical by temperament logical by train and illumine and transfigure by their resolve and endurance. 
you know when supreme trial overtake an acquaintance whom till then we conceive we know how the man s nature sometimes change past knowledge or belief. he who be altogether such an one a ourselves go forward simply even lightly to height we think unattainable. though he be the very same comrade that live our small life with u yet in all thing he ha become great. so it be with france to day. she ha discover the measure of her soul. 
the new war. 
one see this not alone in the it be more than contempt of death in the godlike preoccupation of her people under arm which make them put death out of the account but in the equal passion and fervour with which her people throughout give themselves to the small a well a the great task that may in any way serve their sword. i might tell you something that i saw of the clean out of certain latrine. of the education and antecedent of the cleaner. what they say in the matter and how perfectly the work be do. there be a little rabelais in it naturally but the rest be pure devotion rejoice to be of use. 
similarly with stable barricade and barb wire work the clear and pile away of wreck house rubbish the serve of meal till the service rock on it poor tire foot but keep it temper. and all the unlovely monotonous detail that go with war. 
the woman a i have try to show work stride for stride with the men with heart a resolute and a spirit that ha little mercy for short coming. a woman take her place wherever she can relieve a man in the shop at the post on the tramway the hotel and a thousand other business. she be inure to field work and half the harvest of france this year lie in her lap. one feel at every turn how her men trust her. she know for she share everything with her world what ha befall her sister who be now in german hand and her soul be the undying flame behind the men s steel. neither men nor woman have any illusion a to miracle presently to be perform which shall sweep out or drive back the boche. since the army be the nation they know much though they be officially tell little. they all recognize that the old fashion victory of the past be almost a obsolete a a rifle in a front line trench. they all accept the new war which mean grind down and wear out the enemy by every mean and plan and device that can be compass. it be slow and expensive but a deadly sure a the logic that lead them to make it their one work their sole think their single preoccupation. 
a nation s confidence. 
the same logic save them a vast amount of energy. they know germany in when the world would not believe in their knowledge. they know the german mind before the war. they know what she ha do. they have photograph. during this war. they do not fall into spasm of horror and indignation over atrocity that cannot be mention a the english paper say. they mention them in full and book them to the account. they do not discus nor consider nor waste an emotion over anything that germany say or boast or argue or imply or intrigue after. they have the heart s ease that come from all be at work for their country. the knowledge that the burden of work be equally distribute among all. the certainty that the woman be work side by side with the men. the assurance that when one man s task be at the moment end another take his place. 
out of these thing be bear their power of recuperation in their leisure. their reason calm while at work. and their superb confidence in their arm. even if france of to day stand alone against the world s enemy it would be almost inconceivable to imagine her defeat now. wholly so to imagine any surrender. the war will go on till the enemy be finish. the french do not know when that hour will come. they seldom speak of it. they do not amuse themselves with dream of triumph or term. their business be war and they do their business. 
