american note. 
by rudyard kipling. 
with introduction. 
introduction. 
in an issue of the london world in april there appear the follow paragraph. two small room connect by a tiny hall afford sufficient space to contain mr. rudyard kipling the literary hero of the present hour the man who come from nowhere a he say himself and who a year ago be consciously nothing in the literary world. 
six month previous to this mr. kipling then but twenty four year old have arrive in england from india to find that fame have precede him. he have already gain fame in india where score of culture and critical people after read departmental ditty plain tale from the hill and various other story and verse have stamp him for a genius. 
fortunately for everybody who read london interest and stimulate mr. kipling and he settle down to write. the record of badalia herodsfoot and his first novel the light that fail appear in and. then a collection of verse life s handicap be story of mine own people be publish simultaneously in london and new york city. then follow more verse and so on through an unending series. 
in mr. kipling meet the young author wolcott balestier at that time connect with a london publish house. a strong attachment grow between the two and several month after their first meet they come to mr. balestier s vermont home where they collaborate on the naulahka. a story of west and east for which the century pay the large price ever give by an american magazine for a story. the follow year mr. kipling marry mr. balestier s sister in london and bring her to america. 
the balestiers be of an aristocratic new york family. the grandfather of mr. kipling be j. m. balestier a prominent lawyer in new york city and chicago who die in leave a fortune of about a million. her maternal grandfather be e. peshine smith of rochester n. y. a note author and jurist who be select in by secretary hamilton fish to go to japan a the mikado s adviser in international law. the ancestral home of the balestiers be near brattleboro vt. and here mr. kipling bring his bride. the young englishman be so impress by the vermont scenery that he rent for a time the cottage on the bliss farm in which steele mackaye the playwright write the well know drama hazel kirke. 
the next spring mr. kipling purchase from his brother in law beatty balestier a tract of land about three mile north of brattleboro vt. and on this erect a house at a cost of nearly $ which he name the naulahka. this be his home during his sojourn in america. here he write when in the mood and for recreation tramp abroad over the hill. his social duty at this period be not arduous for to his home he refuse admittance to all but try friend. he make a study of the yankee country dialect and character for the walk delegate and while captain courageous the story of new england fisher life be before him he spend some time among the gloucester fisherman with an acquaintance who have access to the household god of these people. 
he return to england in august and do not visit america again till when he come with his wife and three child for a limit time. 
it be hardly fair to mr. kipling to call american note first impression for one read them will readily see that the impression be superficial little think be put upon the write. they seem super sarcastic and would lead one to believe that mr. kipling be antagonistic to america in every respect. this however be not true. these note arouse much protest and severe criticism when they appear in and be consider so far beneath mr. kipling s real work that they have be nearly suppress and be rarely find in a list of his writing. their very caustic style be of interest to a student and lover of kipling and for this reason the publisher believe them worthy of a good bind. 
g. p. t. 
content. 
at the golden gate. 
american politics. 
american salmon. 
the yellowstone. 
chicago. 
the american army. 
america s defenceless coast. 
i. at the golden gate. 
serene indifferent to fate thou sittest at the western gate. thou seest the white sea fold their tent oh warder of two continent. thou drawest all thing small and great to thee beside the western gate. 
this be what bret harte ha write of the great city of san francisco and for the past fortnight i have be wonder what make him do it. 
there be neither serenity nor indifference to be find in these part. and evil would it be for the continent whose wardship be intrust to so reckless a guardian. 
behold me pitch neck and crop from twenty day of the high sea into the whirl of california deprive of any guidance and leave to draw my own conclusion. protect me from the wrath of an outrage community if these letter be ever read by american eye. san francisco be a mad city inhabit for the most part by perfectly insane people whose woman be of a remarkable beauty. 
when the city of pekin steam through the golden gate i saw with great joy that the block house which guard the mouth of the fine harbor in the world sir could be silence by two gunboat from hong kong with safety comfort and despatch. also there be not a single american vessel of war in the harbor. 
this may sound bloodthirsty. but remember i have come with a grievance upon me the grievance of the pirate english book. 
then a reporter leap aboard and ere i could gasp hold me in his toil. he pump me exhaustively while i be get ashore demand of all thing in the world news about indian journalism. it be an awful thing to enter a new land with a new lie on your lip. i speak the truth to the evil mind custom house man who turn my most sacred raiment on a floor compose of stable refuse and pine splinter. but the reporter overwhelm me not so much by his poignant audacity a his beautiful ignorance. i be sorry now that i do not tell him more lie a i pass into a city of three hundred thousand white men. think of it. three hundred thousand white men and woman gather in one spot walk upon real pavement in front of plate glass windowed shop and talk something that at first hear be not very different from english. it be only when i have tangle myself up in a hopeless maze of small wooden house dust street refuse and child who play with empty kerosene tin that i discover the difference of speech. 
you want to go to the palace hotel. say an affable youth on a dray. what in hell be you do here then. this be about the low ward in the city. go six block north to corner of geary and markey then walk around till you strike corner of gutter and sixteenth and that bring you there. 
i do not vouch for the literal accuracy of these direction quote but from a disorder memory. 
amen i say. but who be i that i should strike the corner of such a you name. peradventure they be gentleman of repute and might hit back. bring it down to dot my son. 
i think he would have smite me but he didn t. he explain that no one ever use the word street and that every one be suppose to know how the street run for sometimes the name be upon the lamp and sometimes they weren t. fortify with these direction i proceed till i find a mighty street full of sumptuous building four and five story high but pave with rude cobblestone after the fashion of the year. 
here a tram car without any visible mean of support slide stealthily behind me and nearly strike me in the back. this be the famous cable car of san francisco which run by grip an endless wire rope sink in the grind and of which i will tell you more anon. a hundred yard further there be a slight commotion in the street a gather together of three or four something that glitter a it move very swiftly. a ponderous irish gentleman with priest s cord in his hat and a small nickel plat badge on his fat bosom emerge from the knot support a chinaman who have be stab in the eye and be bleed like a pig. the by stander go their way and the chinaman assist by the policeman his own. of course this be none of my business but i rather want to know what have happen to the gentleman who have deal the stab. it say a great deal for the excellence of the municipal arrangement of the town that a surge crowd do not at once block the street to see what be go forward. i be the sixth man and the last who assist at the performance and my curiosity be six time the great. indeed i felt ashamed of show it. 
there be no more incident till i reach the palace hotel a seven storied warren of humanity with a thousand room in it. all the travel book will tell you about hotel arrangement in this country. they should be see to be appreciate. understand clearly and this letter be write after a thousand mile of experience that money will not buy you service in the west. when the hotel clerk the man who award your room to you and who be suppose to give you information when that resplendent individual stoop to attend to your want he doe so whistle or hum or pick his teeth or pause to converse with some one he know. these performance i gather be to impress upon you that he be a free man and your equal. from his general appearance and the size of his diamond he ought to be your superior. there be no necessity for this swagger self consciousness of freedom. business be business and the man who be pay to attend to a man might reasonably devote his whole attention to the job. out of office hour he can take his coach and four and pervade society if he plea. 
in a vast marble pave hall under the glare of an electric light sit forty or fifty men and for their use and amusement be provide spittoon of infinite capacity and generous gape. most of the men wear frock coat and top hat the thing that we in india put on at a wed breakfast if we posse them but they all spat. they spat on principle. the spittoon be on the staircase in each bedroom yea and in chamber even more sacred than these. they chase one into retirement but they blossom in chief splendor round the bar and they be all use every reek one of them. 
just before i begin to feel deathly sick another reporter grapple me. what he want to know be the precise area of india in square mile. i refer him to whittaker. he have never hear of whittaker. he want it from my own mouth and i would not tell him. then he swerve off just like the other man to detail of journalism in our own country. i venture to suggest that the interior economy of a paper most concern the people who work it. 
that s the very thing that interest u he say. have you get reporter anything like our reporter on indian newspaper. 
we have not i say and suppress the thank god rise to my lip. 
why haven t you. say he. 
because they would die i say. 
it be exactly like talk to a child a very rude little child. he would begin almost every sentence with now tell me something about india and would turn aimlessly from one question to the other without the least continuity. i be not angry but keenly interest. the man be a revelation to me. to his question i return answer mendacious and evasive. after all it really do not matter what i say. he could not understand. i can only hope and pray that none of the reader of the pioneer will ever see that portentous interview. the man make me out to be an idiot several size more drivel than my destiny intend and the rankness of his ignorance manage to distort the few poor fact with which i supply him into large and elaborate lie. then think i the matter of american journalism shall be look into late on. at present i will enjoy myself. 
no man rise to tell me what be the lion of the place. no one volunteer any sort of conveyance. i be absolutely alone in this big city of white folk. by instinct i seek refreshment and come upon a barroom full of bad salon picture in which men with hat on the back of their head be wolf food from a counter. it be the institution of the free lunch i have strike. you pay for a drink and get a much a you want to eat. for something le than a rupee a day a man can fee himself sumptuously in san francisco even though he be a bankrupt. remember this if ever you be strand in these part. 
late i begin a vast but unsystematic exploration of the street. i ask for no name. it be enough that the pavement be full of white men and woman the street clang with traffic and that the restful roar of a great city ring in my ear. the cable car glide to all point of the compass at once. i take them one by one till i could go no further. san francisco ha be pitch down on the sand bunker of the bikaneer desert. about one fourth of it be grind reclaim from the sea any old timer will tell you all about that. the remainder be just rag unthrifty sand hill to day peg down by house. 
from an english point of view there ha not be the least attempt at grade those hill and indeed you might a well try to grade the hillock of sind. the cable car have for all practical purpose make san francisco a dead level. they take no count of rise or fall but slide equably on their appoint course from one end to the other of a six mile street. they turn corner almost at right angle cross other line and for aught i know may run up the side of house. there be no visible agency of their flight but once in awhile you shall pas a five storied build hum with machinery that wind up an everlasting wire cable and the initiate will tell you that here be the mechanism. i give up ask question. if it plea providence to make a car run up and down a slit in the grind for many mile and if for twopence halfpenny i can ride in that car why shall i seek the reason of the miracle. rather let me look out of the window till the shop give place to thousand and thousand of little house make of wood. to imitate stone. each house just big enough for a man and his family. let me watch the people in the car and try to find out in what manner they differ from u their ancestor. 
it grief me now that i curse them. in the matter of book piracy. because i perceive that my curse be work and that their speech be become a horror already. they delude themselves into the belief that they talk english the english and i have already be pity for speak with an english accent. the man who pity me speak so far a i be concern the language of thief. and they all do. where we put the accent forward they throw it back and vice versa where we give the long a they use the short and word so simple a to be past mistake they pronounce somewhere up in the dome of their head. how do these thing happen. 
oliver wendell holmes say that the yankee school marm the cider and the salt codfish of the eastern state be responsible for what he call a nasal accent. i know good. they steal book from across the water without pay for em and the snort of delight be fix in their nostril forever by a just providence. that be why they talk a foreign tongue to day. 
cat be dog and rabbit be dog and so s parrot. but this ere tortoise be an insect so there ain t no charge a the old porter say. 
a hindoo be a hindoo and a brother to the man who know his vernacular. and a frenchman be french because he speak his own language. but the american ha no language. he be dialect slang provincialism accent and so forth. now that i have hear their voice all the beauty of bret harte be be ruin for me because i find myself catch through the roll of his rhythmical prose the cadence of his peculiar fatherland. get an american lady to read to you how santa claus come to simpson s bar and see how much be under her tongue leave of the beauty of the original. 
but i be sorry for bret harte. it happen this way. a reporter ask me what i think of the city and i make answer suavely that it be hallow grind to me because of bret harte. that be true. 
well say the reporter bret harte claim california but california don t claim bret harte. he s be so long in england that he s quite english. have you see our cracker factory or the new office of the examiner. 
he could not understand that to the outside world the city be worth a great deal le than the man. i never intend to curse the people with a provincialism so vast a this. 
but let u return to our sheep which mean the sea lion of the cliff house. they be the great show of san francisco. you take a train which pull up the middle of the street. it kill two people the day before yesterday be unbraked and drive absolutely regardless of consequence. and you pull up somewhere at the back of the city on the pacific beach. originally the cliff and their approach must have be pretty but they have be so carefully defile with advertisement that they be now one big blister abomination. a hundred yard from the shore stand a big rock cover with the carcass of the sleek sea beast who roar and roll and wallop in the spout surge. no bold man have paint the creature sky blue or advertise newspaper on their back wherefore they do not match the landscape which be chiefly hoard. some day perhaps whatever sort of government may obtain in this country will make a restoration of the place and keep it clean and neat. at present the sovereign people of whom i have hear so much already be vend cherry and paint the virtue of little bile bean all over it. 
night fell over the pacific and the white sea fog whip through the street dim the splendor of the electric light. it be the use of this city her men and woman folk to parade between the hour of eight and ten a certain street call cairn street where the fine shop be situate. here the click of high heel on the pavement be loud here the light be bright and here the thunder of the traffic be most overwhelm. i watch young california and saw that it be at least expensively dress cheerful in manner and self assert in conversation. also the woman be very fair. perhaps eighteen day aboard ship have something to do with my unreserved admiration. the maiden be of generous build large well groom and attire in raiment that even to my inexperienced eye must have cost much. cairn street at nine o clock level all distinction of rank a impartially a the grave. again and again i loiter at the heel of a couple of resplendent being only to overhear when i expect the level voice of culture the staccato sez he sez i that be the mark of the white servant girl all the world over. 
this be depress because in spite of all that go to the contrary fine feather ought to make fine bird. there be wealth unlimited wealth in the street but not an accent that would not have be dear at fifty cent. wherefore revolve in my mind that these folk be barbarian i be presently enlighten and make aware that they also be the heir of all the age and civilize after all. there appear before me an affable strange of prepossess appearance with a blue and an innocent eye. address me by name he claim to have meet me in new york at the windsor and to this claim i give a qualify assent. i do not remember the fact but since he be so certain of it why then i wait development. 
and what do you think of indiana when you come through. be the next question. 
it reveal the mystery of previous acquaintance and one or two other thing. with reprehensible carelessness my friend of the light blue eye have look up the name of his victim in the hotel register and read indiana for india. 
the provincialism with which i have curse his people extend to himself. he could not imagine an englishman come through the state from west to east instead of by the regularly ordain route. my fear be that in his delight in find me so responsive he would make remark about new york and the windsor which i could not understand. and indeed he adventure in this direction once or twice ask me what i think of such and such street which from his tone i gather to be anything but respectable. it be try to talk unknown new york in almost unknown san francisco. but my friend be merciful. he protest that i be one after his own heart and press upon me rare and curious drink at more than one bar. these drink i accept with gratitude a also the cigar with which his pocket be store. he would show me the life of the city. have no desire to watch a weary old play again i evade the offer and receive in lieu of the devil s instruction much coarse flattery. curiously constitute be the soul of man. know how and where this man lie wait idly for the finale i be distinctly conscious a he bubble compliment in my ear of soft thrill of gratify pride steal from hat rim to boot heel. i be wise quoth he anybody could see that with half an eye. sagacious verse in the way of the world an acquaintance to be desire. one who have taste the cup of life with discretion. 
all this please me and in a measure numb the suspicion that be thoroughly arouse. eventually the blue eye one discover nay insist that i have a taste for card. this be clumsily work in but it be my fault for in that i meet him half way and allow him no chance of good act. hereupon i lay my head upon one side and simulate unholy wisdom quote odds and end of poker talk all ludicrously misapply. my friend keep his countenance admirably and well he might for five minute late we arrive always by the pure of chance at a place where we could play card and also frivol with louisiana state lottery ticket. would i play. 
nay say i for to me card have neither mean nor continuity. but let u assume that i be go to play. how would you and your friend get to work. would you play a straight game or make me drink or well the fact be i m a newspaper man and i d be much oblige if you d let me know something about bunco steer. 
my blue eye friend erect himself into an obelisk of profanity. he curse me by his god the right and leave bower. he even curse the very good cigar he have give me. but the storm over he quiet down and explain. i apologize for cause him to waste an even and we spend a very pleasant time together. 
inaccuracy provincialism and a too hasty rush to conclusion be the rock that he have split on but he get his revenge when he say. how would i play with you. from all the poppycock anglice bosh you talk about poker i d ha play a straight game and skin you. i wouldn t have take the trouble to make you drink. you never know anything of the game but how i be mistake in go to work on you make me sick. 
he glare at me a though i have do him an injury. to day i know how it be that year after year week after week the bunco steerer who be the confidence trick and the card sharp man of other clime secure his prey. he claver them over with flattery a the snake claver the rabbit. the incident depress me because it show i have leave the innocent east far behind and be come to a country where a man must look out for himself. the very hotel bristle with notice about keep my door lock and deposit my valuable in a safe. the white man in a lump be bad. weep softly for o toyo. little i know then that my heart be to be tear afresh from my bosom. i fell asleep in the clang hotel. 
next morning i have enter upon the defer inheritance. there be no prince in america at least with crown on their head but a generous mind member of some royal family receive my letter of introduction. ere the day close i be a member of the two club and book for many engagement to dinner and party. now this prince upon whose financial operation be continual increase have no reason nor have the others his friend to put himself out for the sake of one briton more or le but he rest not till he have accomplish all in my behalf that a mother could think of for her debutante daughter. 
do you know the bohemian club of san francisco. they say it fame extend over the world. it be create somewhat on the line of the savage by men who write or draw thing and ha blossom into most unrepublican luxury. the ruler of the place be an owl an owl stand upon a skull and cross bone show forth grimly the wisdom of the man of letter and the end of his hope for immortality. the owl stand on the staircase a statue four foot high. be carve in the wood work flutter on the fresco ceiling be stamp on the note paper and hang on the wall. he be an ancient and honorable bird. under his wing twas my privilege to meet with white men whose life be not chain down to routine of toil who write magazine article instead of read them hurriedly in the pause of office work who paint picture instead of content themselves with cheap etching pick up at another man s sale of effect. mine be all the right of social intercourse craft by craft that india stony hearted step mother of collector ha swindle u out of. tread soft carpet and breathe the incense of superior cigar i wander from room to room study the painting in which the member of the club have caricature themselves their associate and their aim. there be a slick french audacity about the workmanship of these men of toil unbend that go straight to the heart of the beholder. and yet it be not altogether french. a dry grimness of treatment almost dutch mark the difference. the men paint a they speak with certainty. the club indulge in revelry which it call jinks high and low at interval and each of these gathering be faithfully portray in oil by hand that know their business. in this club be no amateur spoil canvas because they fancy they could handle oil without knowledge of shadow or anatomy no gentleman of leisure ruin the temper of publisher and an already ruin market with attempt to write because everybody write something these day. 
my host be work or have work for their daily bread with pen or paint and their talk for the most part be of the shop shoppy that be to say delightful. they extend a large hand of welcome and be a brother and i do homage to the owl and listen to their talk. an indian club about christmas time will yield if properly work an abundant harvest of queer tale. but at a gather of american from the uttermost end of their own continent the tale be large thick more spinous and even more azure than any indian variety. tale of the war i hear tell by an ex officer of the south over his even drink to a colonel of the northern army my introducer who have serve a a trooper in the northern horse throw in emendation from time to time. tale of the law which in this country be an amazingly elastic affair follow from the lip of a judge. forgive me for record one tale that strike me a new. it may interest the up country bar in india. 
once upon a time there be samuelson a young lawyer who fear not god neither regard the bench. name age and town of the man be give at great length. to him no case have ever come a a client partly because he live in a district where lynch law prevail and partly because the most desperate prisoner shrink from intrust himself to the mercy of a phenomenal stammerer. but in time there happen an aggravate murder so bad indeed that by common consent the citizen decide a a prelude to lynch to give the real law a chance. they could in fact gambol round that murder. they meet the court in it shirt sleeve and against the raw square of the court house window a temptingly suggestive branch of a tree fret the sky. no one appear for the prisoner and partly in jest the court advise young samuelson to take up the case. 
the prisoner be undefended sam say the court. the square thing to do would be for you to take him aside and do the best you can for him. 
court jury and witness then adjourn to the veranda while samuelson lead his client aside to the court house cell. an hour pass ere the lawyer return alone. mutely the audience question. 
may it p p please the c court say samuel son my client s case be a b b b bad one a d d amn bad one. you tell me to do the b b best i c could for him judge so i ve jest give him y your b b bay geld an tell him to light out for healthy c clime my p p professional opinion be he d be hang quick n h h hades if he dally here. b by this time my client s bout fifteen mile out yonder somewhere. that be the b b best i could do for him may it p p please the court. 
the young man escape punishment in lieu of the prisoner make his fortune ere five year. 
other voice follow with equally wondrous tale of riata throw in mexico and arizona of gamble at army post in texas of newspaper war wag in godless chicago. i could not help be interest but they be not pretty trick. of death sudden and violent in montana and dakota of the love of half breed maiden in the south and fantastic hunting for gold in mysterious alaska. above all they tell the story of the build of old san francisco when the fine collection of humanity on god s earth sir start this town and the water come up to the foot of market street. very terrible be some of the tale grimly humorous the others and the men in broadcloth and fine linen who tell them have play their part in them. 
and now and again when thing get too bad they would toll the city bell and the vigilance committee turn out and hang the suspicious character. a man didn t begin to be suspect in those day till he have commit at least one unprovoked murder say a calm eye portly old gentleman. 
i look at the picture around me the noiseless neat uniform waiter behind me the oak rib ceiling above the velvet carpet beneath. it be hard to realize that even twenty year ago you could see a man hang with great pomp. late on i find reason to change my opinion. the tale give me a headache and set me think. how in the world be it possible to take in even one thousandth of this huge roar many side continent. in the tobacco scent silence of the sumptuous library lay professor bryce s book on the american republic. 
it be an omen say i. he ha do all thing in all seriousness and he may be purchase for half a guinea. those who desire information of the most undoubted must refer to his page. for me be the daily round of vagabondage the record of the incident of the hour and intercourse with the travel companion of the day. i will not do this country at all. 
and i forget all about india for ten day while i go out to dinner and watch the social custom of the people which be entirely different from our custom and be introduce to men of many million. these person be harmless in their early stage that be to say a man worth three or four million dollar may be a good talker clever amuse and of the world. a man with twice that amount be to be avoid and a twenty million man be just twenty million. take an instance. i be speak to a newspaper man about see the proprietor of his journal a in my innocence i suppose newspaper men occasionally do. my friend snort indignantly. see him. great scott. no. if he happen to appear in the office i have to associate with him. but thank heaven. outside of that i move in circle where he cannot come. 
and yet the first thing i have be teach to believe be that money be everything in america. 
ii. american politics. 
i have be watch machinery in repose after read about machinery in action. 
an excellent gentleman who bear a name honor in the magazine write much a disraeli orate of the sublime instinct of an ancient people the certainty with which they can be trust to manage their own affair in their own way and the speed with which they be make for all sort of desirable goal. this he call a statement or purview of american politics. 
i go almost directly afterward to a saloon where gentleman interest in ward politics nightly congregate. they be not pretty person. some of them be bloat and they all swear cheerfully till the heavy gold watch chain on their fat stomach rise and fell again. but they talk over their liquor a men who have power and unquestioned access to place of trust and profit. 
the magazine writer discuss theory of government. these men the practice. they have be there. they know all about it. they bang their fist on the table and speak of political pull the vend of vote and so forth. theirs be not the talk of village babbler reconstruct the affair of the nation but of strong coarse lustful men fight for spoil and thoroughly understand the best method of reach it. 
i listen long and intently to speech i could not understand or but in spot. 
it be the speech of business however. i have sense enough to know that and to do my laugh outside the door. 
then i begin to understand why my pleasant and well educate host in san francisco speak with a bitter scorn of such duty of citizenship a vote and take an interest in the distribution of office. score of men have tell me without false pride that they would a soon concern themselves with the public affair of the city or state a rake muck with a steam shovel. it may be that their lofty disdain cover selfishness but i should be very sorry habitually to meet the fat gentleman with shiny top hat and plump cigar in whose society i have be spend the even. 
read about politics a the culture writer of the magazine regard em and then and not till then pay your respect to the gentleman who run the grimy reality. 
i m sick of interview night editor who lean their chair against the wall and in response to my demand for the record of a prominent citizen answer. well you see he begin by keep a saloon etc. i prefer to believe that my informant be treat me a in the old sinful day in india i be use to treat the wander globe trotter. they declare that they speak the truth and the news of dog politics lately vouchsafe to me in groggeries incline me to believe but i win t. the people be much too nice to slangander a recklessly a i have be do. 
besides i be hopelessly in love with about eight american maiden all perfectly delightful till the next one come into the room. 
o toyo be a darling but she lack several thing conversation for one. you cannot live on giggle. she shall remain unmarried at nagasaki while i roast a batter heart before the shrine of a big kentucky blonde who have for a nurse when she be little a negro mammy. 
by consequence she ha weld on california beauty paris dress eastern culture europe trip and wild western originality the queer dreamy superstition of the quarter and the result be soul shatter. and she be but one of many star. 
item a maiden who belief in education and posse it with a few hundred thousand dollar to boot and a taste for slum. 
item the leader of a sort of informal salon where girl congregate read paper and daringly discus metaphysical problem and candy a sloe eye black browed imperious maiden she. 
item a very small maiden absolutely without reverence who can in one swift sentence trample upon and leave gasp half a dozen young men. 
item a millionairess burden with her money lonely caustic with a tongue keen a a sword yearn for a sphere but chain up to the rock of her vast possession. 
item a typewriter maiden earn her own bread in this big city because she doesn t think a girl ought to be a burden on her parent who quote theophile gautier and move through the world manfully much respect for all her twenty inexperienced summer. 
item a woman from cloud land who ha no history in the past or future but be discreetly of the present and strive for the confidence of male humanity on the ground of sympathy. methinks this be not altogether a new type. 
item a girl in a dive bless with a greek head and eye that seem to speak all that be best and sweet in the world. but woe be me. she ha no idea in this world or the next beyond the consumption of beer. a commission on each bottle. and protest that she sing the song allot to her nightly without more than the vague notion of their mean. 
sweet and comely be the maiden of devonshire. delicate and of gracious seem those who live in the pleasant place of london. fascinate for all their demureness the damsel of france cling closely to their mother with large eye wonder at the wicked world. excellent in her own place and to those who understand her be the anglo indian spin in her second season. but the girl of america be above and beyond them all. they be clever they can talk yea it be say that they think. certainly they have an appearance of so do which be delightfully deceptive. 
they be original and regard you between the brow with unabashed eye a a sister might look at her brother. they be instruct too in the folly and vanity of the male mind for they have associate with the boy from babyhood and can discerningly minister to both vice or pleasantly snub the possessor. they posse moreover a life among themselves independent of any masculine association. they have society and club and unlimited tea fight where all the guest be girl. they be self possess without part with any tenderness that be their sex right. they understand. they can take care of themselves. they be superbly independent. when you ask them what make them so charm they say. it be because we be good educate than your girl and and we be more sensible in regard to men. we have good time all round but we aren t teach to regard every man a a possible husband. nor be he expect to marry the first girl he call on regularly. 
yes they have good time their freedom be large and they do not abuse it. they can go drive with young men and receive visit from young men to an extent that would make an english mother wink with horror and neither driver nor drivee ha a think beyond the enjoyment of a good time. a certain also of their own poet have say. 
man be fire and woman be tow and the devil he come and begin to blow. 
in america the tow be soak in a solution that make it fire proof in absolute liberty and large knowledge. consequently accident do not exceed the regular percentage arrange by the devil for each class and climate under the sky. 
but the freedom of the young girl ha it drawback. she be i say it with all reluctance irreverent from her forty dollar bonnet to the buckle in her eighteen dollar shoe. she talk flippantly to her parent and men old enough to be her grandfather. she ha a prescriptive right to the society of the man who arrive. the parent admit it. 
this be sometimes embarrass especially when you call on a man and his wife for the sake of information the one be a merchant of vary knowledge the other a woman of the world. in five minute your host ha vanish. in another five his wife ha follow him and you be leave alone with a very charm maiden doubtless but certainly not the person you come to see. she chatter and you grin but you leave with the very strong impression of a waste morning. this ha be my experience once or twice. i have even say a pointedly a i dare to a man. i come to see you. 
you d good see me in my office then. the house belong to my woman folk to my daughter that be to say. 
he speak the truth. the american of wealth be own by his family. they exploit him for bullion. the woman get the ha penny the kick be all his own. nothing be too good for an american s daughter. i speak here of the moneyed class. 
the girl take every gift a a matter of course and yet they develop greatly when a catastrophe arrive and the man of many million go up or go down and his daughter take to stenography or typewrite. i have hear many tale of heroism from the lip of girl who count the principal among their friend. the crash come mamie or hattie or sadie give up their maid their carriage and candy and with a no. remington and a stout heart set about earn their daily bread. 
and do i drop her from the list of my friend. no sir say a scarlet lipped vision in white lace. that might happen to u any day. 
it may be this sense of possible disaster in the air that make san francisco society go with so captivate a rush and whirl. recklessness be in the air. i can t explain where it come from but there it be. the roar wind of the pacific make you drink to begin with. the aggressive luxury on all side help out the intoxication and you spin forever down the ring groove of change. there be no small change by the way west of the rockies. a long a money last. they make greatly and they spend lavishly. not only the rich but the artisan who pay nearly five pound for a suit of clothe and for other luxury in proportion. 
the young men rejoice in the day of their youth. they gamble yacht race enjoy prize fight and cock fight the one openly the other in secret. they establish luxurious club. they break themselves over horse flesh and other thing and they be instant in a quarrel. at twenty they be experience in business embark in vast enterprise take partner a experience a themselves and go to piece with a much splendor a their neighbor. remember that the men who stock california in the fifty be physically and a far a regard certain tough virtue the pick of the earth. the inept and the weakly die en route or go under in the day of construction. to this nucleus be add all the race of the continent french italian german and of course the jew. 
the result you can see in the large bone deep chested delicate hand woman and long elastic well build boy. it need no little golden badge swing from the watch chain to mark the native son of the golden west the country breed of california. 
him i love because he be devoid of fear carry himself like a man and ha a heart a big a his book. i fancy too he know how to enjoy the blessing of life that his province so abundantly bestow upon him. at least i hear a little rat of a creature with hock bottle shoulder explain that a man from chicago could pull the eye teeth of a californian in business. 
well if i live in fairy land where cherry be a big a plum plum a big a apple and strawberry of no account where the procession of the fruit of the season be like a pageant in a drury lane pantomime and the dry air be wine i should let business slide once in a way and kick up my heel with my fellow. the tale of the resource of california vegetable and mineral be a fairy tale. you can read it in book. you would never believe me. 
all manner of nourish food from sea fish to beef may be buy at the low price and the people be consequently well develop and of a high stomach. they demand ten shilling for tinker a jam lock of a trunk. they receive sixteen shilling a day for work a carpenter. they spend many sixpence on very bad cigar which the poor of them smoke and they go mad over a prize fight. when they disagree they do so fatally with fire arm in their hand and on the public street. i be just clear of mission street when the trouble begin between two gentleman one of whom perforate the other. 
when a policeman whose name i do not recollect fatally shoot ed hearney for attempt to escape arrest i be in the next street. for these thing i be thankful. it be enough to travel with a policeman in a tram car and while he arrange his coat tail a he sit down to catch sight of a load revolver. it be enough to know that fifty per cent of the men in the public saloon carry pistol about them. 
the chinaman waylay his adversary and methodically chop him to piece with his hatchet. then the press roar about the brutal ferocity of the pagan. 
the italian reconstruct his friend with a long knife. the press complain of the waywardness of the alien. 
the irishman and the native californian in their hour of discontent use the revolver not once but six time. the press record the fact and ask in the next column whether the world can parallel the progress of san francisco. the american who love his country will tell you that this sort of thing be confine to the low class. just at present an ex judge who be send to jail by another judge. upon my word i cannot tell whether these title mean anything. be breathe red hot vengeance against his enemy. the paper have interview both party and confidently expect a fatal issue. 
now let me draw breath and curse the negro waiter and through him the negro in service generally. he ha be make a citizen with a vote consequently both political party play with him. but that be neither here nor there. he will commit in one meal every betise that a senllion fresh from the plow tail be capable of and he will continue to repeat those fault. he be a complete a heavy foot uncomprehending bungle fisted fool a any mem sahib in the east ever take into her establishment. but he be accord to law a free and independent citizen consequently above reproof or criticism. he and he alone in this insane city will wait at table. the chinaman doesn t count. 
he be untrained inept but he will fill the place and draw the pay. now god and his father s fate make him intellectually inferior to the oriental. he insist on pretend that he serf table by accident a a sort of amusement. he wish you to understand this little fact. you wish to eat your meal and if possible to have them properly serve. he be a big black vain baby and a man roll into one. 
a color gentleman who insist on get me pie when i want something else demand information about india. i give him some fact about wage. 
oh hell. say he cheerfully that wouldn t keep me in cigar for a month. 
then he fawn on me for a ten cent piece. late he take it upon himself to pity the native of india. heathen he call them this woolly one whose race ha be the butt of every comedy on the native stage since the begin. and i turn and saw by the head upon his shoulder that he be a yoruba man if there be any truth in ethnological caste. he do his think in english but he be a yoruba negro and the race type have remain the same throughout his generation. and the room be full of other race some that look exactly like gallas. but the trade be never recruit from that side of africa. some duplicate of cameroon head and some kroomen if ever kroomen wear even dress. 
the american doe not consider little matter of descent though by this time he ought to know all about damnable heredity. a a general rule he keep himself very far from the negro and say thing about him that be not pretty. there be six million negro more or le in the state and they be increase. the american once have make them citizen cannot unmake them. he say in his newspaper they ought to be elevate by education. he be try this but it be likely to be a long job because black blood be much more adhesive than white and throw back with annoy persistence. when the negro get religion he return directly a a hive bee to the first instinct of his people. just now a wave of religion be sweep over some of the southern state. 
up to the present two messiah and a daniel have appear and several human sacrifice have be offer up to these incarnation. the daniel manage to get three young men who he insist be shadrach meshach and abednego to walk into a blast furnace guarantee non combustion. they do not return. i have see nothing of this kind but i have attend a negro church. they pray or be cause to pray by themselves in this country. the congregation be move by the spirit to groan and tear and one of them dance up the aisle to the mourner bench. the motive may have be genuine. the movement of the shake body be those of a zanzibar stick dance such a you see at aden on the coal boat and even a i watch the people the link that bind them to the white man snap one by one and i saw before me the hubshi. woolly hair. pray to a god he do not understand. those neatly dress folk on the bench and the gray head elder by the window be savage neither more nor le. 
what will the american do with the negro. the south will not consort with him. in some state miscegenation be a penal offence. the north be every year le and le in need of his service. 
and he will not disappear. he will continue a a problem. his friend will urge that he be a good a the white man. his enemy well you can guess what his enemy will do from a little incident that follow on a recent appointment by the president. he make a negro an assistant in a post office where think of it. he have to work at the next desk to a white girl the daughter of a colonel one of the first family of georgia s modern chivalry and all the weary weary rest of it. the southern chivalry howl and hang or burn some one in effigy. perhaps it be the president and perhaps it be the negro but the principle remain the same. they say it be an insult. it be not good to be a negro in the land of the free and the home of the brave. 
but this be nothing to do with san francisco and her merry maiden her strong swagger men and her wealth of gold and pride. they bore me to a banquet in honor of a brave lieutenant carlin of the vandalia who stick by his ship in the great cyclone at apia and comport himself a an officer should. on that occasion twas at the bohemian club i hear oratory with the round of o s and devour a dinner the memory of which will descend with me into the hungry grave. 
there be about forty speech deliver and not one of them be average or ordinary. it be my first introduction to the american eagle scream for all it be worth. the lieutenant s heroism serve a a peg from which the silver tongue one turn themselves loose and kick. 
they ransack the cloud of sunset the thunderbolt of heaven the deep of hell and the splendor of the resurrection for trope and metaphor and hurl the result at the head of the guest of the even. 
never since the morning star sing together for joy i learn have an amaze creation witness such superhuman bravery a that display by the american navy in the samoa cyclone. till earth rot in the phosphorescent star and stripe slime of a decay universe that god like gallantry would not be forget. i grieve that i cannot give the exact word. my attempt at reproduce their spirit be pale and inadequate. i sit bewilder on a coruscate niagara of blatherum skite. it be magnificent it be stupendous and i be conscious of a wicked desire to hide my face in a napkin and grin. then accord to rule they produce their dead and across the snowy tablecloth drag the corpse of every man slay in the civil war and hurl defiance at our natural enemy. england so please you. with her chain of fortress across the world. thereafter they glorify their nation afresh from the begin in case any detail should have be overlook and that make me uncomfortable for their sake. how in the world can a white man a sahib of our blood stand up and plaster praise on his own country. he can think a highly a he like but this open mouth vehemence of adoration strike me almost a indelicate. my host talk for rather more than three hour and at the end seem ready for three hour more. 
but when the lieutenant such a big brave gentle giant rise to his foot he deliver what seem to me a the speech of the even. i remember nearly the whole of it and it run something in this way. gentleman it s very good of you to give me this dinner and to tell me all these pretty thing but what i want you to understand the fact be what we want and what we ought to get at once be a navy more ship lot of em. 
then we howl the top of the roof off and i for one fell in love with carlin on the spot. wallah. he be a man. 
the prince among merchant bid me take no heed to the warlike sentiment of some of the old general. 
the sky rocket be throw in for effect quoth he and whenever we get on our hind leg we always express a desire to chaw up england. it s a sort of family affair. 
and indeed when you come to think of it there be no other country for the american public speaker to trample upon. 
france ha germany. we have russia. for italy austria be provide. and the humble pathan posse an ancestral enemy. 
only america stand out of the racket and therefore to be in fashion make a sand bag of the mother country and hang her when occasion require. 
the chain of fortress man a fascinate talker explain to me after the affair that he be compel to blow off steam. everybody expect it. 
when we have chant the star spangle banner not more than eight time we adjourn. america be a very great country but it be not yet heaven with electric light and plush fitting a the speaker profess to believe. my listen mind go back to the politician in the saloon who waste no time in talk about freedom but quietly make arrangement to impose their will on the citizen. 
the judge be a great man but give thy present to the clerk a the proverb saith. 
and what more remain to tell. i cannot write connectedly because i be in love with all those girl aforesaid and some others who do not appear in the invoice. the typewriter be an institution of which the comic paper make much capital but she be vastly convenient. she and a companion rent a room in a business quarter and aid by a typewrite machine copy ms. at the rate of six anna a page. only a woman can operate a typewrite machine because she ha serve apprenticeship to the sew machine. she can earn a much a one hundred dollar a month and profess to regard this form of bread win a her natural destiny. but oh. how she hate it in her heart of heart. when i have get over the surprise of do business with and try to give order to a young woman of coldly clerkly aspect intrench behind gold rim spectacle i make inquiry concern the pleasure of this independence. they like it indeed they do. twas the natural fate of almost all girl the recognize custom in america and i be a barbarian not to see it in that light. 
well and after. say i. what happen. 
we work for our bread. 
and then what do you expect. 
then we shall work for our bread. 
till you die. 
ye e unless. 
unless what. this be your business you know. a man work until he dy. 
so shall we this without enthusiasm i suppose. 
say the partner in the firm audaciously. sometimes we marry our employee at least that s what the newspaper say. 
the hand bang on half a dozen of the key of the machine at once. yet i don t care. i hate it i hate it i hate it and you needn t look so. 
the senior partner be regard the rebel with grave eye reproach. 
i think you do say i. i don t suppose american girl be much different from english one in instinct. 
isn t it theophile gautier who say that the only difference between country and country lie in the slang and the uniform of the police. 
now in the name of all the god at once what be one to say to a young lady. who in england would be a person. who earn her own bread and very naturally hate the employ and sling out of the way quotation at your head. that one fall in love with her go without say but that be not enough. 
a mission should be establish. 
iii. american salmon. 
the race be neither to the swift nor the battle to the strong. but time and chance cometh to all. 
i have live. 
the american continent may now sink under the sea for i have take the best that it yield and the best be neither dollar love nor real estate. 
hear now gentleman of the punjab fish club who whip the reach of the tavi and you who painfully import trout over to octamund and i will tell you how old man california and i go fish and you shall envy. 
we return from the dalles to portland by the way we have come the steamer stop en route to pick up a night s catch of one of the salmon wheel on the river and to deliver it at a cannery downstream. 
when the proprietor of the wheel announce that his take be two thousand two hundred and thirty pound weight of fish and not a heavy catch neither i think he lie. but he send the box aboard and i count the salmon by the hundred huge fifty pounder hardly dead score of twenty and thirty pounder and a host of small fish. they be all chenook salmon a distinguish from the steel head and the silver side. that be to say they be royal salmon and california and i drop a tear over them a monarch who deserve a good fate. but the lust of slaughter enter into our soul and we talk fish and forget the mountain scenery that have so move u a day before. 
the steamer halt at a rude wooden warehouse build on pile in a lonely reach of the river and send in the fish. i follow them up a scale strew fishy incline that lead to the cannery. the crazy build be quiver with the machinery on it floor and a glitter bank of tin scrap twenty foot high show where the waste be throw after the can have be punch. 
only chinaman be employ on the work and they look like blood besmear yellow devil a they cross the rift of sunlight that lay upon the floor. when our consignment arrive the rough wooden box break of themselves a they be dump down under a jet of water and the salmon burst out in a stream of quicksilver. a chinaman jerk up a twenty pounder behead and detail it with two swift stroke of a knife flick out it internal arrangement with a third and case it into a blood dye tank. the headless fish leap from under his hand a though they be face a rapid. other chinaman pull them from the vat and thrust them under a thing like a chaff cutter which descend hew them into unseemly red gobbet fit for the can. 
more chinaman with yellow crook finger jam the stuff into the can which slide down some marvellous machine forthwith solder their own top a they pass. each can be hastily test for flaw and then sink with a hundred companion into a vat of boil water there to be half cook for a few minute. the can bulge slightly after the operation and be therefore slide along by the trolleyful to men with needle and solder iron who vent them and solder the aperture. except for the label the fine columbia salmon be ready for the market. i be impress not so much with the speed of the manufacture a the character of the factory. inside on a floor ninety by forty the most civilize and murderous of machinery. outside three footstep the thick grow pine and the immense solitude of the hill. our steamer only stay twenty minute at that place but i count two hundred and forty finish can make from the catch of the previous night ere i leave the slippery blood stain scale spangle oily floor and the offal smear chinaman. 
we reach portland california and i cry for salmon and a real estate man to whom we have be intrust by an insurance man meet u in the street say that fifteen mile away across country we should come upon a place call clackamas where we might perchance find what we desire. and california his coat tail fly in the wind run to a livery stable and charter a wagon and team forthwith. i could push the wagon about with one hand so light be it structure. the team be purely american that be to say almost human in it intelligence and docility. some one say that the road be not good on the way to clackamas and warn u against smash the spring. portland who have watch the preparation finally reckon he d come along too. and under heavenly sky we three companion of a day set forth california carefully lash our rod into the carriage and the by stander overwhelm u with direction a to the saw mill we be to pas the ferry we be to cross and the sign post we be to seek sign from. half a mile from this city of fifty thousand soul we strike. and this must be take literally. a plank road that would have be a disgrace to an irish village. 
then six mile of macadamize road show u that the team could move. a railway run between u and the bank of the willamette and another above u through the mountain. all the land be dot with small township and the road be full of farmer in their town wagon bunch of tow haired boggle eye urchin sit in the hay behind. the men generally look like loafer but their woman be all well dress. 
brown braid on a tailor make jacket doe not however consort with hay wagon. then we strike into the wood along what california call a camina reale a good road and portland a fair track. it wind in and out among fire blacken stump under pine tree along the corner of log fence through hollow which must be hopeless marsh in the winter and up absurd gradient. but nowhere throughout it length do i see any evidence of road make. there be a track you couldn t well get off it and it be all you could do to stay on it. the dust lay a foot thick in the blind rut and under the dust we find bit of plank and bundle of brushwood that send the wagon bound into the air. the journey in itself be a delight. sometimes we crash through bracken. anon where the blackberry grow rank we find a lonely little cemetery the wooden rail all awry and the pitiful stumpy head stone nod drunkenly at the soft green mullion. then with oath and the sound of rent underwood a yoke of mighty bull would swing down a skid road haul a forty foot log along a rudely make slide. 
a valley full of wheat and cherry tree succeed and halt at a house we buy ten pound weight of luscious black cherry for something le than a rupee and get a drink of icy cold water for nothing while the untended team browse sagaciously by the road side. once we find a way side camp of horse dealer lounge by a pool ready for a sale or a swap and once two sun tan youngster shoot down a hill on indian pony their full creel bang from the high pommel saddle. they have be fish and be our brother therefore. we shout aloud in chorus to scare a wild cat. we squabble over the reason that have lead a snake to cross a road. we heave bit of bark at a venturesome chipmunk who be really the little gray squirrel of india and have come to call on me. we lose our way and get the wagon so beautifully fix on a khud bind road that we have to tie the two hind wheel to get it down. 
above all california tell tale of nevada and arizona of lonely night spend out prospect the slaughter of deer and the chase of men of woman lovely woman who be a firebrand in a western city and lead to the pop of pistol and of the sudden change and chance of fortune who delight in make the miner or the lumber man a quadruplicate millionaire and in bust the railroad king. 
that be a day to be remember and it have only begin when we draw rein at a tiny farm house on the bank of the clackamas and seek horse fee and lodge ere we hasten to the river that break over a weir not a quarter of a mile away. imagine a stream seventy yard broad divide by a pebbly island run over seductive riffle and swirl into deep quiet pool where the good salmon go to smoke his pipe after meal. get such a stream amid field of breast high crop surround by hill of pine throw in where you please quiet water long fence meadow and a hundred foot bluff just to keep the scenery from grow too monotonous and you will get some faint notion of the clackamas. the weir have be erect to pen the chenook salmon from go further up stream. we could see them twenty or thirty pound by the score in the deep pool or fly madly against the weir and foolishly skin their nose. they be not our prey for they would not rise at a fly and we know it. all the same when one make his leap against the weir and land on the foot plank with a jar that shake the board i be stand on i would fain have claim him for my own capture. 
portland have no rod. he hold the gaff and the whiskey. california sniff up stream and down stream across the race water choose his grind and let the gaudy fly drop in the tail of a riffle. i be get my rod together when i hear the joyous shriek of the reel and the yell of california and three foot of live silver leap into the air far across the water. the force be engage. 
the salmon tear up stream the tense line cut the water like a tide rip behind him and the light bamboo bow to break. what happen thereafter i cannot tell. california swear and pray and portland shout advice and i do all three for what appear to be half a day but be in reality a little over a quarter of an hour and sullenly our fish come home with spurt of temper dash head on and saraband in the air but home to the bank come he and the remorseless reel gather up the thread of his life inch by inch. we land him in a little bay and the spring weight in his gorgeous gill check at eleven and one half pound. eleven and one half pound of fight salmon. we dance a war dance on the pebble and california catch me round the waist in a hug that go near to break my rib while he shout. partner. partner. this be glory. now you catch your fish. twenty four year i ve wait for this. 
i go into that icy cold river and make my cast just above the weir and all but foul hook a blue and black water snake with a coral mouth who coil herself on a stone and hiss male diction. 
the next cast ah the pride of it the regal splendor of it. the thrill that run down from finger tip to toe. then the water boil. he break for the fly and get it. there remain enough sense in me to give him all he want when he jump not once but twenty time before the up stream flight that run my line out to the last half dozen turn and i saw the nickel reel bar glitter under the thin green coil. my thumb be burn deep when i strive to stopper the line. 
i do not feel it till late for my soul be out in the dance weir pray for him to turn ere he take my tackle away. and the prayer be hear. a i bow back the butt of the rod on my leave hip bone and the top joint dip like unto a weep willow he turn and accept each inch of slack that i could by any mean get in a a favor from on high. there lie several sort of success in this world that taste well in the moment of enjoyment but i question whether the stealthy theft of line from an able body salmon who know exactly what you be do and why you be do it be not sweet than any other victory within human scope. like california s fish he run at me head on and leap against the line but the lord give me two hundred and fifty pair of finger in that hour. the bank and the pine tree dance dizzily round me but i only reel reel a for life reel for hour and at the end of the reel continue to give him the butt while he sulk in a pool. california be further up the reach and with the corner of my eye i could see him cast with long cast and much skill. then he strike and my fish break for the weir in the same instant and down the reach we come california and i reel answer reel even a the morning star sing together. 
the first wild enthusiasm of capture have die away. we be both at work now in deadly earnest to prevent the line foul to stall off a down stream rush for shaggy water just above the weir and at the same time to get the fish into the shallow bay down stream that give the best practicable land. portland bid u both be of good heart and volunteer to take the rod from my hand. 
i would rather have die among the pebble than surrender my right to play and land a salmon weight unknown with an eight ounce rod. i hear california at my ear it seem gasp. he s a fighter from fightersville sure. a his fish make a fresh break across the stream. i saw portland fall off a log fence break the overhang bank and clatter down to the pebble all sand and land net and i drop on a log to rest for a moment. a i draw breath the weary hand slacken their hold and i forget to give him the butt. 
a wild scutter in the water a plunge and a break for the head water of the clackamas be my reward and the weary toil of reel in with one eye under the water and the other on the top joint of the rod be renew. bad of all i be block california s path to the little land bay aforesaid and he have to halt and tire his prize where he be. 
the father of all the salmon. he shout. for the love of heaven get your trout to bank johnny bull. 
but i could do no more. even the insult fail to move me. the rest of the game be with the salmon. he suffer himself to be draw skip ping with pretend delight at get to the haven where i would fain bring him. yet no sooner do he feel shoal water under his ponderous belly than he back like a torpedo boat and the snarl of the reel tell me that my labor be in vain. a dozen time at least this happen ere the line hint he have give up the battle and would be tow in. he be tow. the land net be useless for one of his size and i would not have him gaffed. i step into the shallow and heave him out with a respectful hand under the gill for which kindness he batter me about the leg with his tail and i felt the strength of him and be proud. california have take my place in the shallow his fish hard hold. i be up the bank lie full length on the sweet scent grass and gasp in company with my first salmon catch play and land on an eight ounce rod. my hand be cut and bleed i be drip with sweat spangle like a harlequin with scale water from my waist down nose peel by the sun but utterly supremely and consummately happy. 
the beauty the darling the daisy my salmon bahadur weigh twelve pound and i have be seven and thirty minute bring him to bank. he have be lightly hook on the angle of the right jaw and the hook have not weary him. that hour i sit among prince and crown head great than them all. below the bank we hear california scuffle with his salmon and swear spanish oath. portland and i assist at the capture and the fish drag the spring balance out by the root. it be only construct to weigh up to fifteen pound. we stretch the three fish on the grass the eleven and a half the twelve and fifteen pounder and we give an oath that all who come after should merely be weigh and put back again. 
how shall i tell the glory of that day so that you may be interest. again and again do california and i prance down that reach to the little bay each with a salmon in tow and land him in the shallow. then portland take my rod and catch some ten pounder and my spoon be carry away by an unknown leviathan. each fish for the merit of the three that have die so gamely be hastily hook on the balance and fling back. portland record the weight in a pocket book for he be a real estate man. each fish fight for all he be worth and none more savagely than the small a game little six pounder. at the end of six hour we add up the list. read it. total. sixteen fish. aggregate weight one hundred and forty pound. the score in detail run something like this it be only interest to those concern. fifteen eleven and a half twelve ten nine and three quarter eight and so forth. a i have say nothing under six pound and three ten pounder. 
very solemnly and thankfully we put up our rod it be glory enough for all time and return weep in each other s arm weep tear of pure joy to that simple bare legged family in the pack case house by the water side. 
the old farmer recollect day and night of fierce warfare with the indian way back in the fifty when every ripple of the columbia river and her tributary hide covert danger. god have dower him with a queer crook gift of expression and a fierce anxiety for the welfare of his two little son tan and reserve child who attend school daily and speak good english in a strange tongue. 
his wife be an austere woman who have once be kindly and perhaps handsome. 
very many year of toil have take the elasticity out of step and voice. she look for nothing good than everlasting work the chafe detail of housework and then a grave somewhere up the hill among the blackberry and the pine. 
but in her grim way she sympathize with her eldest daughter a small and silent maiden of eighteen who have thought very far from the meal she tend and the pan she scour. 
we stumble into the household at a crisis and there be a deal of downright humanity in that same. a bad wicked dress maker have promise the maiden a dress in time for a to morrow s rail way journey and though the barefooted georgy who stand in very wholesome awe of his sister have scour the wood on a pony in search that dress never arrive. so with sorrow in her heart and a hundred sister anne glance up the road she wait upon the stranger and i doubt not curse them for the want that stand between her and her need for tear. it be a genuine little tragedy. the mother in a heavy passionless voice rebuke her impatience yet sit up far into the night bow over a heap of sew for the daughter s benefit. 
these thing i behold in the long marigold scent twilight and whisper night loaf round the little house with california who un fold himself like a lotus to the moon or in the little board bunk that be our bedroom swap ping tale with portland and the old man. 
most of the yarn begin in this way. red larry be a bull puncher back of lone county montana or there be a man rid the trail meet a jack rabbit sit in a cactus or bout the time of the san diego land boom a woman from monterey etc. 
you can try to piece out for yourselves what sort of story they be. 
iv. the yellowstone. 
once upon a time there be a carter who bring his team and a friend into the yellowstone park without due think. presently they come upon a few of the natural beauty of the place and that carter turn his team into his friend s team howl. get out o this jim. all hell s alight under our nose. 
and they call the place hell s half acre to this day to witness if the carter lie. 
we too the old lady from chicago her husband tom and the good little mare come to hell s half acre which be about sixty acre in extent and when tom say. would you like to drive over it. 
we say. certainly not and if you do we shall report you to the park authority. 
there be a plain blister peel and abominable and it be give over to the sport and spout of devil who throw mud and steam and dirt at each other with whoop and halloo and bellow curse. 
the place smell of the refuse of the pit and that odor mix with the clean wholesome aroma of the pine in our nostril throughout the day. 
this yellowstone park be lay out like ollendorf in exercise of progressive difficulty. hell s half acre be a prelude to ten or twelve mile of geyser formation. 
we pass hot stream boil in the forest. saw whiff of steam beyond these and yet other whiff break through the misty green hill in the far distance. we trample on sulphur in crystal and sniff thing much bad than any sulphur which be know to the upper world. and so journey bewilder with the novelty come upon a really park like place where tom suggest we should get out and play with the geyser on foot. 
imagine mighty green field splatter with lime bed all the flower of the summer grow up to the very edge of the lime. that be our first glimpse of the geyser basin. 
the buggy have pull up close to a rough break blister cone of spelter stuff between ten and twenty foot high. there be trouble in that place moan splash gurgle and the clank of machinery. a spurt of boil water jump into the air and a wash of water follow. 
i remove swiftly. the old lady from chicago shriek. what a wicked waste. say her husband. 
i think they call it the riverside geyser. it spout be tear and rag like the mouth of a gun when a shell ha burst there. it grumble madly for a moment or two and then be still. i creep over the steam lime it be the burn marl on which satan lay and look fearfully down it mouth. you should never look a gift geyser in the mouth. 
i behold a horrible slippery slimy funnel with water rise and fall ten foot at a time. then the water rise to lip level with a rush and an infernal bubble trouble this devil s bethesda before the sullen heave of the crest of a wave lap over the edge and make me run. 
mark the nature of the human soul. i have begin with awe not to say terror for this be my first experience of such thing. i step back from the bank of the riverside geyser say. pooh. be that all it can do. 
yet for aught i know the whole thing might have blow up at a minute s notice she he or it be an arrangement of uncertain temper. 
we drift on up that miraculous valley. on either side of u be hill from a thousand or fifteen hundred foot high wooded from crest to heel. a far a the eye could range forward be column of steam in the air misshapen lump of lime mist like preadamite monster still pool of turquoise blue stretch of blue corn flower a river that coil on itself twenty time point bowlder of strange color and ridge of glare star white. 
a moon face trooper of german extraction never be park so carefully patrol come up to inform u that a yet we have not see any of the real geyser. that they be all a mile or so up the valley and tastefully scatter round the hotel in which we would rest for the night. 
america be a free country but the citizen look down on the soldier. i have to entertain that trooper. the old lady from chicago would have none of him. so we loaf alone together now across half rotten pine log sink in swampy grind anon over the ring geyser formation then pound through river sand or brush knee deep through long grass. 
and why do you enlist. say i. 
the moon face one s face begin to work. i think he would have a fit but he tell me a story instead such a nice tale of a naughty little girl who write pretty love letter to two men at once. she be a simple village wife but a wicked family novelette count couldn t have accomplish her end good. she drive one man nearly wild with the pretty little treachery and the other man abandon her and come west to forget the trickery. 
moon face be that man. 
we round and limp over a low spur of hill and come out upon a field of ache snowy lime roll in sheet twist into knot rive with rent and diamond and star stretch for more than half a mile in every direction. 
on this place of despair lay most of the big bad geyser who know when there be trouble in krakatoa who tell the pine when there be a cyclone on the atlantic seaboard and who be exhibit to visitor under pretty and fanciful name. 
the first mound that i encounter belong to a goblin who be splash in his tub. 
i hear him kick pull a shower bath on his shoulder gasp crack his joint and rub himself down with a towel. then he let the water out of the bath a a thoughtful man should and it all sink down out of sight till another goblin arrive. 
so we look and we wonder at the beehive whose mouth be build up exactly like a hive at the turban. which be not in the least like a turban. and at many many other geyser hot hole and spring. some of them rumble some hiss some go off spasmodically and others lay dead still in sheet of sapphire and beryl. 
would you believe that even these terrible creature have to be guard by the trooper to prevent the irreverent american from chip the cone to piece or bad still make the geyser sick. if you take a small barrel full of soft soap and drop it down a geyser s mouth that geyser will presently be force to lay all before you and for day afterward will be of an irritate and inconstant stomach. 
when they tell me the tale i be fill with sympathy. now i wish that i have soft soap and try the experiment on some lonely little beast far away in the wood. it sound so probable and so human. 
yet he would be a bold man who would administer emetic to the giantess. she be flat lipped have no mouth. she look like a pool fifty foot long and thirty wide and there be no ornamentation about her. at irregular interval she speak and send up a volume of water over two hundred foot high to begin with then she be angry for a day and a half sometimes for two day. 
owe to her peculiarity of go mad in the night not many people have see the giantess at her fine. but the clamor of her unrest men say shake the wooden hotel and echo like thunder among the hill. 
the congregation return to the hotel to put down their impression in diary and note book which they write up ostentatiously in the veranda. it be a swelter hot day albeit we stand some what high than the level of simla and i leave that raw pine creak caravansary for the cool shade of a clump of pine between whose trunk glimmer tent. 
a batch of unite state trooper come down the road and fling themselves across the country into their rough line. the mexican cavalryman can ride though he keep his accoutrement pig fashion and his horse cow fashion. 
i be free of that camp in five minute free to play with the heavy lumpy carbine have the saddle strip and punch the horse knowingly in the rib. one of the men have be in the fight with wrap up his tail and he tell me how that great chief his horse s tail tie up in red calico swagger in front of the unite state cavalry challenge all to single combat. but he be slay and a few of his tribe with him. 
there s no use in an indian anyway conclude my friend. 
a couple of cow boy real cow boy jingle through the camp amid a shower of mild chaff. they be on their way to cook city i fancy and i know that they never wash. but they be picturesque ruffian exceedingly with long spur hood stirrup slouch hat fur weather cloth over their knee and pistol butt just easy to hand. 
the cow boy s goin under before long say my friend. soon a the country s settle up he ll have to go. but he s mighty useful now. what would we do without the cow boy. 
a how. say i and the camp laugh. 
he ha the money. we have the skill. he come in winter to play poker at the military post. we play poker a few. when he s lose his money we make him drink and let him go. sometimes we get the wrong man. 
and he tell me a tale of an innocent cow boy who turn up clean out at an army post and play poker for thirty six hour. but it be the post that be clean out when that long haired caucasian remove himself heavy with everybody s pay and decline the proffer liquor. 
noaw say the historian i don t play with no cow boy unless he s a little bite drink first. 
ere i depart i gather from more than one man the significant fact that up to one hundred yard he felt absolutely secure behind his revolver. 
in england i understand quoth the limber youth from the south in england a man isn t allow to play with no fire arm. he s get to be teach all that when he enlist. i didn t want much teach how to shoot straight fore i serve uncle sam. and that s just where it be. but you be talk about your horse guard now. 
i explain briefly some peculiarity of equipment connect with our crack crack cavalry. i grieve to say the camp roar. 
take em over swampy grind. let em run around a bite an work the starch out of em an then almighty if we wouldn t plug em at ease i d eat their horse. 
there be a maiden a very little maiden who have just step out of one of jam s novel. she own a delightful mother and an equally delightful father a heavy eye slow voice man of finance. the parent think that their daughter want change. 
she live in new hampshire. accordingly she have drag them up to alaska and to the yosemite valley and be now return leisurely via the yellowstone just in time for the tail end of the summer season at saratoga. 
we have meet once or twice before in the park and i have be amaze and amuse at her critical commendation of the wonder that she saw. from that very resolute little mouth i receive a lecture on american literature the nature and inwardness of washington society the precise value of cable s work a compare with uncle remus harris and a few other thing that have nothing whatever to do with geyser but be altogether pleasant. 
now an english maiden who have stumble on a dust grime lime wash sun peel collarless wanderer come from and go to goodness know where would her mother incite her and her father brandish an umbrella have regard him a a dissolute adventurer a person to be disregard. 
not so those delightful people from new hampshire. they be good enough to treat him it sound almost incredible a a human be possibly respectable probably not in immediate need of financial assistance. 
papa talk pleasantly and to the point. 
the little maiden strive valiantly with the accent of her birth and that of her rear and mamma smile benignly in the background. 
balance this with a story of a young english idiot i meet moon about inside his high collar attend by a valet. he condescend to tell me that you can t be too careful who you talk to in these part. and stalk on fear i suppose every minute for his social chastity. 
that man be a barbarian. i take occasion to tell him so. for he comport himself after the manner of the head hunter and hunt of assam who be at perpetual feud one with another. 
you will understand that these foolish story be introduce in order to cover the fact that this pen cannot describe the glory of the upper geyser basin. the even i spend under the lee of the castle geyser sit on a log with some trooper and watch a baronial keep forty foot high spout hot water. if the castle go off first they say the giantess would be quiet and vice versa and then they tell tale till the moon get up and a party of camper in the wood give u all something to eat. 
then come soft turfy forest that deaden the wheel and two trooper on detachment duty steal noiselessly behind u. one be the wrap up his tail man and they talk merrily while the half break horse buck about among the tree. and so a cavalry escort be with u for a mile till we get to a mighty hill strew with moss agate and everybody have to jump out and pant in that thin air. but how intoxicate it be. the old lady from chicago duck like an emancipate hen a she scuttle about the road cram piece of rock into her reticule. she send me fifty yard down to the hill side to pick up a piece of break bottle which she insist be moss agate. 
i ve some o that at home an they shine. yes you go get it young man. 
a we climb the long path the road grow vile and vile till it become without disguise the bed of a torrent. and just when thing be at their rocky we nearly fell into a little sapphire lake but never sapphire be so blue call mary s lake. and that between eight and nine thousand foot above the sea. 
afterward grass down all on a vehement slope so that the buggy follow the new make road run on the two off wheel mostly till we dip head first into a ford climb up a cliff race along down dip again and pull up dishevel at larry s for lunch and an hour s rest. 
then we lay on the grass and laugh with sheer bliss of be alive. this have i know once in japan once on the bank of the columbia what time the salmon come in and california howl and once again in the yellowstone by the light of the eye of the maiden from new hampshire. four little pool lay at my elbow one be of black water. tepid. one clear water. cold. one clear water. hot. one red water. boil. my newly wash handkerchief cover them all and we two marvel a child marvel. 
this even we shall do the grand canyon of the yellowstone say the maiden. 
together. say i. and she say yes. 
the sun be begin to sink when we hear the roar of fall water and come to a broad river along whose bank we run. and then i might at a pinch describe the infernal region but not the other place. the yellowstone river ha occasion to run through a gorge about eight mile long. to get to the bottom of the gorge it make two leap one of about one hundred and twenty and the other of three hundred foot. i investigate the upper or less fall which be close to the hotel. 
up to that time nothing particular happen to the yellowstone it bank be only rocky rather steep and plentifully adorn with pine. 
at the fall it come round a corner green solid rib with a little foam and not more than thirty yard wide. then it go over still green and rather more solid than before. after a minute or two you sit upon a rock directly above the drop begin to understand that something ha occur. that the river ha jump between solid cliff wall and that the gentle froth of water lap the side of the gorge below be really the outcome of great wave. 
and the river yell aloud. but the cliff do not allow the yell to escape. 
that inspection begin with curiosity and finish in terror for it seem that the whole world be slide in chrysolite from under my foot. i follow with the others round the corner to arrive at the brink of the canyon. we have to climb up a nearly perpendicular ascent to begin with for the grind rise more than the river drop. stately pine wood fringe either lip of the gorge which be the gorge of the yellowstone. you ll find all about it in the guide book. 
all that i can say be that without warn or preparation i look into a gulf seventeen hundred foot deep with eagle and fish hawk circle far below. and the side of that gulf be one wild welter of color crimson emerald cobalt ochre amber honey splash with port wine snow white vermilion lemon and silver gray in wide wash. the side do not fall sheer but be grave by time and water and air into monstrous head of king dead chief men and woman of the old time. so far below that no sound of it strife could reach u the yellowstone river run a finger wide strip of jade green. 
the sunlight take those wondrous wall and give fresh hue to those that nature have already lay there. 
even creep through the pine that shadow u but the full glory of the day flame in that canyon a we go out very cautiously to a jut piece of rock blood red or pink it be that overhang the deep deep of all. 
now i know what it be to sit enthrone amid the cloud of sunset a the spirit sit in blake s picture. giddiness take away all sensation of touch or form but the sense of blind color remain. 
when i reach the mainland again i have swear that i have be float. 
the maid from new hampshire say no word for a very long time. then she quote poetry which be perhaps the best thing she could have do. 
and to think that this show place ha be go on all these day an none of we ever saw it say the old lady from chicago with an acid glance at her husband. 
no only the injians say he unmoved. and the maiden and i laugh. 
inspiration be fleet beauty be vain and the power of the mind for wonder limit. though the shin host themselves have rise choir from the bottom of the gorge they would not have prevent her papa and one base than he from roll stone down those stupendous rainbow wash slide. seventeen hundred foot of steep est pitch and rather more than seventeen hundred color for log or bowlder to whirl through. 
so we heave thing and saw them gather way and bind from white rock to red or yellow drag behind them torrent of color till the noise of their descent cease and they bound a hundred yard clear at the last into the yellowstone. 
i ve be down there say tom that even. it s easy to get down if you re careful just sit an slide. but get up be bad. an i find down below there two stone just mark with a picture of the canyon. i wouldn t sell these rock not for fifteen dollar. 
and papa and i crawl down to the yellowstone just above the first little fall to wet a line for good luck. the round moon come up and turn the cliff and pine into silver. and a two pound trout come up also and we slew him among the rock nearly tumble into that wild river. 

then out and away to livingstone once more. the maiden from new hampshire disappear papa and mamma with her. disappear too the old lady from chicago and the others. 
v. chicago. 
i know thy cunning and thy greed thy hard high lust and wilful deed and all thy glory love to tell of specious gift material. 
i have strike a city a real city and they call it chicago. 
the other place do not count. san francisco be a pleasure resort a well a a city and salt lake be a phenomenon. 
this place be the first american city i have encounter. it hold rather more than a million of people with body and stand on the same sort of soil a calcutta. have see it i urgently desire never to see it again. it be inhabit by savage. it water be the water of the hooghly and it air be dirt. also it say that it be the bos town of america. 
i do not believe that it ha anything to do with this country. they tell me to go to the palmer house which be overmuch gild and mirror and there i find a huge hall of tessellate marble cram with people talk about money and spit about everywhere. other barbarian charge in and out of this inferno with letter and telegram in their hand and yet others shout at each other. a man who have drink quite a much a be good for him tell me that this be the fine hotel in the fine city on god almighty s earth. by the way when an american wish to indicate the next country or state he say god a mighty s earth. this prevent discussion and flatter his vanity. 
then i go out into the street which be long and flat and without end. and verily it be not a good thing to live in the east for any length of time. your idea grow to clash with those hold by every right think man. i look down interminable vista flank with nine ten and fifteen storied house and crowd with men and woman and the show impress me with a great horror. 
except in london and i have forget what london be like i have never see so many white people together and never such a collection of miserables. there be no color in the street and no beauty only a maze of wire rope overhead and dirty stone flag under foot. 
a cab driver volunteer to show me the glory of the town for so much an hour and with him i wander far. he conceive that all this turmoil and squash be a thing to be reverently admire that it be good to huddle men together in fifteen layer one atop of the other and to dig hole in the grind for office. 
he say that chicago be a live town and that all the creature hurry by me be engage in business. that be to say they be try to make some money that they might not die through lack of food to put into their belly. he take me to canal a black a ink and fill with un tell abomination and bid me watch the stream of traffic across the bridge. 
he then take me into a saloon and while i drink make me note that the floor be cover with coin sink in cement. a hottentot would not have be guilty of this sort of barbarism. the coin make an effect pretty enough but the man who put them there have no think of beauty and therefore he be a savage. 
then my cab driver show me business block gay with sign and stud with fantastic and absurd advertisement of good and look down the long street so adorn it be a though each vender stand at his door howl. for the sake of my money employ or buy of me and me only. 
have you ever see a crowd at a famine relief distribution. you know then how the men leap into the air stretch out their arm above the crowd in the hope of be see while the woman dolorously slap the stomach of their child and whimper. i have sooner watch famine relief than the white man engage in what he call legitimate competition. the one i understand. the other make me ill. 
and the cabman say that these thing be the proof of progress and by that i know he have be read his newspaper a every intelligent american should. the paper tell their clientele in language fit to their comprehension that the snarl together of telegraph wire the heave up of house and the make of money be progress. 
i spend ten hour in that huge wilderness wander through score of mile of these terrible street and jostle some few hundred thousand of these terrible people who talk paisa bat through their nose. 
the cabman leave me. but after awhile i pick up another man who be full of figure and into my ear he pour them a occasion require or the big blank factory suggest. here they turn out so many hundred thousand dollar worth of such and such an article. there so many million other thing. this house be worth so many million dollar. that one so many million more or le. it be like listen to a child babble of it hoard of shell. it be like watch a fool play with button. but i be expect to do more than listen or watch. he demand that i should admire. and the utmost that i could say be. be these thing so. then i be very sorry for you. 
that make him angry and he say that insular envy make me unresponsive. so you see i could not make him understand. 
about four and a half hour after adam be turn out of the garden of eden he felt hungry and so bid eve take care that her head be not break by the descend fruit shin up a cocoanut palm. that hurt his leg cut his breast and make him breathe heavily and eve be torment with fear l her lord should miss his foot and so bring the tragedy of this world to an end ere the curtain have fairly rise. have i meet adam then i should have be sorry for him. to day i find eleven hundred thousand of his son just a far advance a their father in the art of get food and immeasurably inferior to him in that they think that their palm tree lead straight to the sky. consequently i be sorry in rather more than a million different way. 
in the east bread come naturally even to the poor by a little scratch or the gift of a friend not quite so poor. in le favor country one be apt to forget. then i go to bed. and that be on a saturday night. 
sunday bring me the queer experience of all a revelation of barbarism complete. i find a place that be officially describe a a church. it be a circus really but that the worshipper do not know. there be flower all about the build which be fit up with plush and stain oak and much luxury include twist brass candlestick of severe gothic design. 
to these thing and a congregation of savage enter suddenly a wonderful man completely in the confidence of their god whom he treat colloquially and exploit very much a a newspaper reporter would exploit a foreign potentate. but unlike the newspaper reporter he never allow his listener to forget that he and not he be the centre of attraction. with a voice of silver and with imagery borrow from the auction room he build up for his hearer a heaven on the line of the palmer house. but with all the gild real gold and all the plate glass diamond. and set in the centre of it a loud voice argumentative very shrewd creation that he call god. one sentence at this point catch my delight ear. it be apropos of some question of the judgment and run. no. i tell you god doesn t do business that way. 
he be give them a deity whom they could comprehend and a gold and jewel heaven in which they could take a natural interest. he interlard his performance with the slang of the street the counter and the exchange and he say that religion ought to enter into daily life. consequently i presume he introduce it a daily life his own and the life of his friend. 
then i escape before the bless desire no benediction at such hand. but the person who listen seem to enjoy themselves and i understand that i have meet with a popular preacher. 
late on when i have peruse the sermon of a gentleman call talmage and some others i perceive that i have be listen to a very mild specimen. yet that man with his brutal gold and silver idol his hand in pocket cigar in mouth and hat on the back of the head style of deal with the sacred vessel would count himself spiritually quite competent to send a mission to convert the indian. 
all that sunday i listen to people who say that the mere fact of spike down strip of iron to wood and get a steam and iron thing to run along them be progress that the telephone be progress and the net work of wire overhead be progress. they repeat their statement again and again. 
one of them take me to their city hall and board of trade work and point it out with pride. it be very ugly but very big and the street in front of it be narrow and unclean. when i saw the face of the men who do business in that build i felt that there have be a mistake in their billet. 
by the way ti a consolation to feel that i be not write to an english audience. then i should have to fall into feign ecstasy over the marvellous progress of chicago since the day of the great fire to allude casually to the raise of the entire city so many foot above the level of the lake which it face and generally to grovel before the golden calf. but you who be desperately poor and therefore by these standard of no ac count know thing will understand when i write that they have manage to get a million of men together on flat land and that the bulk of these men together appear to be low than mahajans and not so companionable a a punjabi jat after harvest. 
but i don t think it be the blind hurry of the people their argot and their grand ignorance of thing beyond their immediate interest that displease me so much a a study of the daily paper of chicago. 
imprimis there be some sort of a dispute between new york and chicago a to which town should give an exhibition of product to be hereafter holden and through the medium of their more dignify journal the two city be yahooing and hi yi ing at each other like opposition newsboy. they call it humor but it sound like something quite different. 
that be only the first trouble. the second lay in the tone of the production. lead article which include gem such a back of such and such a place or we notice tuesday such an event or don t for doe not be thing to be accept with thankfulness. all that make me want to cry be that in these paper be faithfully reproduce all the war cry and back talk of the palmer house bar the slang of the barber shop the mental elevation and integrity of the pullman car porter the dignity of the dime museum and the accuracy of the excite fish wife. i be sternly forbid to believe that the paper educate the public. then i be compel to believe that the public educate the paper. yet suicide on the press be rare. 
just when the sense of unreality and oppression be strong upon me and when i most want help a man sit at my side and begin to talk what he call politics. 
i have chance to pay about six shilling for a travel cap worth eighteen penny and he make of the fact a text for a sermon. he say that this be a rich country and that the people like to pay two hundred per cent on the value of a thing. they could afford it. he say that the government impose a protective duty of from ten to seventy per cent on foreign make article and that the american manufacturer consequently could sell his good for a healthy sum. thus an import hat would with duty cost two guinea. the american manufacturer would make a hat for seventeen shilling and sell it for one pound fifteen. in these thing he say lay the greatness of america and the effeteness of england. competition between factory and factory keep the price down to decent limit but i be never to forget that this people be a rich people not like the pauper continentals and that they enjoy pay duty. 
to my weak intellect this seem rather like juggle with counter. everything that i have yet purchase cost about twice a much a it would in england and when native make be of inferior quality. 
moreover since these line be first think of i have visit a gentleman who own a factory which use to produce thing. he own the factory still. not a man be in it but he be draw a handsome income from a syndicate of firm for keep it close in order that it might not produce thing. this man say that if protection be abandon a tide of pauper labor would flood the country and a i look at his factory i think how entirely good it be to have no labor of any kind whatever rather than face so horrible a future. 
meantime do you remember that this peculiar country enjoy pay money for value not receive. i be an alien and for the life of me i cannot see why six shilling should be pay for eighteen penny cap or eight shilling for half crown cigar case. when the country fill up to a decently populate level a few million people who be not alien will be smite with the same sort of blindness. 
but my friend s assertion somehow thoroughly suit the grotesque ferocity of chicago. 
see now and judge. in the village of isser jang on the road to montgomery there be four changar woman who winnow corn some seventy bushel a year. beyond their hut life purun das the money lender who on good security lend a much a five thousand rupee in a year. jowala singh the smith mend the village plow some thirty break at the share in three hundred and sixty five day. and hukm chund who be letter writer and head of the little club under the traveller tree generally keep the village post in such gossip a the barber and the mid wife have not yet make public property. 
chicago husk and winnow her wheat by the million bushel a hundred bank lend hundred of million of dollar in the year and score of factory turn out plow gear and machinery by steam. score of daily paper do work which hukm chund and the barber and the midwife perform with due regard for public opinion in the village of isser jang. so far a manufactory go the difference between chicago on the lake and isser jang on the montgomery road be one of degree only and not of kind. a far a the understand of the us of life go isser jang for all it seasonal choler ha the advantage over chicago. 
jowala singh know and take care to avoid the three or four ghoul haunt field on the outskirt of the village. but he be not urge by million of devil to run about all day in the sun and swear that his plowshare be the best in the punjab. nor doe purun das fly forth in an ekka more than once or twice a year and he know on a pinch how to use the railway and the telegraph a well a any son of israel in chicago. but this be absurd. 
the east be not the west and these men must continue to deal with the machinery of life and to call it progress. their very preacher dare not rebuke them. they gloss over the hunt for money and the thrice sharpen bitterness of adam s curse by say that such thing dower a man with a large range of thought and high aspiration. they do not say free yourselves from your own slavery but rather if you can possibly manage it do not set quite so much store on the thing of this world. 
and they do not know what the thing of this world be. 
i go off to see cattle kill by way of clear my head which a you will perceive be get muddle. they say every englishman go to the chicago stock yard. you shall find them about six mile from the city. and once have see them you will never forget the sight. 
a far a the eye can reach stretch a town ship of cattle pen cunningly divide into block so that the animal of any pen can be speedily drive out close to an incline timber path which lead to an elevate cover way straddle high above the pen. these viaduct be two storied. on the upper story tramp the doom cattle stolidly for the most part. on the low with a scuffle of sharp hoof and multitudinous yell run the pig the same end be appoint for each. thus you will see the gang of cattle wait their turn a they wait sometimes for day. and they need not be distress by the sight of their fellow run about in the fear of death. all they know be that a man on horseback cause their next door neighbor to move by mean of a whip. certain bar and fence be unshipped and behold. that crowd have go up the mouth of a slop tunnel and return no more. 
it be different with the pig. they shriek back the news of the exodus to their friend and a hundred pen skirl responsive. 
it be to the pig i first address myself. select a viaduct which be full of them a i could hear though i could not see i mark a sombre build whereto it run and go there not unalarmed by stray cattle who have manage to escape from their proper quarter. a pleasant smell of brine warn me of what be come. i enter the factory and find it full of pork in barrel and on another story more pork un barrel and in a huge room the half of swine for whose behoof great lump of ice be be pitch in at the window. that room be the mortuary chamber where the pig lay for a little while in state ere they begin their progress through such passage a king may sometimes travel. 
turn a corner and not note an overhead arrangement of grease rail wheel and pulley i run into the arm of four eviscerate carcass all pure white and of a human aspect push by a man clothe in vehement red. when i leap aside the floor be slippery under me. also there be a flavor of farm yard in my nostril and the shout of a multitude in my ear. but there be no joy in that shout. twelve men stand in two line six a side. between them and overhead run the railway of death that have nearly shunt me through the window. each man carry a knife the sleeve of his shirt be cut off at the elbow and from bosom to heel he be blood red. 
beyond this perspective be a column of steam and beyond that be where i work my awe strike way unwilling to touch beam or wall. the atmosphere be stifle a a night in the rain by reason of the steam and the crowd. i climb to the begin of thing and perch upon a narrow beam overlook very nearly all the pig ever breed in wisconsin. they have just be shoot out of the mouth of the viaduct and huddle together in a large pen. thence they be flick persuasively a few at a time into a small chamber and there a man fix tackle on their hind leg so that they rise in the air suspend from the railway of death. 
oh. it be then they shriek and call on their mother and make promise of amendment till the tackle man punt them in their back and they slide head down into a brick floor passage very like a big kitchen sink that be blood red. there await them a red man with a knife which he pass jauntily through their throat and the full voice shriek become a splutter and then a fall a of heavy tropical rain and the red man who be back against the passage wall you will understand stand clear of the wildly kick hoof and pass his hand over his eye not from any feel of compassion but because the spurt blood be in his eye and he have barely time to stick the next arrival. then that first stick swine drop still kick into a great vat of boil water and speak no more word but wallow in obedience to some unseen machinery and presently come forth at the low end of the vat and be heave on the blade of a blunt paddle wheel thing which say hough hough hough. and skelped all the hair off him except what little a couple of men with knife could remove. 
then he be again hitch by the heel to that say railway and pass down the line of the twelve men each man with a knife lose with each man a certain amount of his individuality which be take away in a wheel barrow and when he reach the last man he be very beautiful to behold but excessively unstuff and limp. preponderance of individuality be ever a bar to foreign travel. that pig could have be in case to visit you in india have he not part with some of his most cherish notion. 
the dissect part impress me not so much a the slay. they be so excessively alive these pig. and then they be so excessively dead and the man in the drip clammy not passage do not seem to care and ere the blood of such a one have cease to foam on the floor such another and four friend with him have shriek and die. but a pig be only the unclean animal the forbid of the prophet. 
vi. the american army. 
i should very much like to deliver a dissertation on the american army and the possibility of it extension. you see it be such a beautiful little army and the dear people don t quite understand what to do with it. the theory be that it be an instructional nucleus round which the militia of the country will rally and from which they will get a stiffen in time of danger. yet other people consider that the army should be build like a pair of lazy tongs on the principle of elasticity and extension so that in time of need it may fill up it skeleton battalion and empty saddle troop. this be real wisdom be cause the american army a at present constitute be make up of. twenty five regiment infantry ten company each. 
ten regiment cavalry twelve company each. 
five regiment artillery twelve company each. 
now there be a notion in the air to reorganize the service on these line. eighteen regiment infantry at four battalion four company each. third battalion skeleton. fourth on paper. 
eight regiment cavalry at four battalion four troop each. third battalion skeleton. fourth on paper. 
five regiment artillery at four battalion four company each. third battalion skeleton. fourth on paper. 
observe the beauty of this business. the third battalion will have it officer but no men. the fourth will probably have a rendezvous and some equipment. 
it be not contemplate to give it anything more definite at present. assume the regiment to be make up to full complement we get an army of fifty thousand men which after the need pass away must be cut down fifty per cent to the huge delight of the officer. 
the military need of the state be three. a. frontier warfare an employment well within the grip of the present army of twenty five thousand and in the nature of thing grow le arduous year by year. b. internal riot and commotion which rise up like a dust devil whirl furiously and die out long before the authority at washington could begin to fill up even the third skeleton battalion much le hunt about for material for the fourth. c. civil war in which a the case in the affair of the north and south the regular army would be swamp in the mass of militia and arm volunteer would turn the land into a hell. 
yet the authority persist in regard an external war a a thing to be seriously consider. 
the power that would disembark troop on american soil would be capable of heave a shovelful of mud into the atlantic in the hope of fill it up. consequently the authority be fascinate with the idea of the slide scale or concertina army. this be an hereditary instinct for you know that when we english have get together two company one machine gun a sick bullock forty general and a mass of w. o. form we say we posse an army corp capable of indefinite extension. 
the american army be a beautiful little army. some day when all the indian be happily dead or drink it ought to make the fine scientific and survey corp that the world ha ever see. it doe excellent work now but there be this defect in it nature. it be officer a you know from west point. 
the mischief of it be that west point seem to be create for the purpose of spread a general knowledge of military matter among the people. a boy go up to that institution get his pas and return to civil life so they tell me with a dangerous knowledge that he be a suckle von moltke and may apply his learn when occasion offer. give trouble that man will be a nuisance because he be a hideously versatile american to begin with a cock sure of himself a a man can be and with all the racial disregard for human life to back him through any demi semi professional generalship. 
in a country where a the record of the daily paper show men engage in a conflict with police or jail be all too ready to adopt a military formation and get heavily shoot in a sort of cheap half construct warfare instead of be decently scar by the appearance of the military this sort of arrangement doe not seem wise. 
the bond between the state be of an amaze tenuity. so long a they do not absolutely march into the district of columbia sit on the washington statue and invent a flag of their own they can legislate lynch hunt negro through swamp divorce railroad and rampage a much a ever they choose. they do not need knowledge of their own military strength to back their genial lawlessness. 
that regular army which be a dear little army should be keep to itself blood on detachment duty turn into the path of science and now and again assemble at feast of free mason and so forth. 
it be too tiny to be a political power. the immortal wreck of the grand army of the republic be a political power of the large and most unblushing description. it ought not to help to lay the foundation of an amateur military power that be blind and irresponsible. 
by great good luck the evil mind train already delay twelve hour by a burn bridge bring me to the city on a saturday by way of that valley which the mormon over their effort have cause to blossom like the rise. twelve hour previously i have enter into a new world where in conversation every one be either a mormon or a gentile. it be not seemly for a free and independent citizen to dub himself a gentile but the mayor of ogden which be the gentile city of the valley tell me that there must be some distinction between the two flock. 
long before the fruit orchard of logan or the shin level of the salt lake have be reach that mayor himself a gentile and one renowned for his dealing with the mormon tell me that the great question of the existence of the power within the power be be gradually solve by the ballot and by education. 
all the beauty of the valley could not make me forget it. and the valley be very fair. bench after bench of land flat a a table against the flank of the ring hill mark where the salt lake rest for awhile in it collapse from an inland sea to a lake fifty mile long and thirty broad. 
there be the making of a very fine creed about mormonism. to begin with the church be rather more absolute than that of rome. drop the polygamy plank in the platform but on the other hand deal lightly with certain form of excess. keep the quality of the recruit down to the low mental level and see that the best of all the agricultural science available be in the hand of the elder and there you have a first class engine for pioneer work. the tawdry mysticism and the borrow from freemasonry serve the low caste swede and dane the welshman and the cornish cotter just a well a a highly organize heaven. 
then i go about the street and peep into people s front window and the decoration upon the table be after the manner of the year. main street be full of country folk from the desert come in to trade with the zion mercantile co operative institute. the church i fancy look after the finance of this thing and it consequently pay good dividend. 
the face of the woman be not lovely. in deed but for the certainty that ugly person be just a irrational in the matter of undivided love a the beautiful it seem that polygamy be a bless institution for the woman and that only the dread threat of the spiritual power could drive the hulk board face men into it. the woman wear hideous garment and the men appear to be tie up with string. 
they would market all that afternoon and on sunday go to the pray place. i try to talk to a few of them but they speak strange tongue and star and behave like cow. yet one woman and not an altogether ugly one confide to me that she hat the idea of salt lake city be turn into a show place for the amusement of the gentile. 
if we have our own institution that ain t no reason why people should come ere and stare at u his it. 
the drop h betray her. 
and when do you leave england. i say. 
summer of. i be dorset she say. the mormon agent be very good to u and we be very poor. now we re good off my father an mother an me. 
then you like the state. 
she misunderstand at first. 
oh i ain t livin in the state of polygamy. not me yet. i ain t marry. i like where i be. i ve get thing o my own and some land. 
but i suppose you will. 
not me. i ain t like them swede an dane. i ain t get nothin to say for or against polygamy. it s the elder business an between you an me i don t think it s go on much long. you ll ear them in the ouse to morrer talkin a if it be spreadin all over america. the swede they think it his. i know it hisn t. 
but you ve get your land all right. 
oh yes. we ve get our land an we never say aught against polygamy o course father an mother an me. 
on a table land overlook all the city stand the unite state garrison of infantry and artillery. the state of utah can do nearly anything it plea until that much to be desire hour when the gentile vote shall quietly swamp out mormonism. but the garrison be keep there in case of accident. the big shark mouth pig eared heavy bone farmer sometimes take to their creed with wild fanaticism and in past year have make life excessively unpleasant for the gentile when he be few in the land. but to day so far from kill openly or secretly or burn gentile farm it be all the mormon dare do to feebly try to boycott the interloper. his journal preach defiance to the unite state government and in the tabernacle on a sunday the preacher follow suit. 
when i go there the place be full of people who would have be much good for a wash. 
a man rise up and tell them that they be the choose of god the elect of israel. that they be to obey their priest and that there be a good time come. i fancy that they have hear all this before so many time it produce no impression whatever even a the sublime mystery of another faith lose salt through constant iteration. they breathe heavily through their nose and star straight in front of them impassive a flat fish. 
vii. america s defenceless coast. 
just suppose that america be twenty day distant from england. then a man could study it custom with undivided soul. but be so very near next door he go about the land with one eye on the smoke of the flesh pot of the old country across the sea while with the other he squint biliously and prejudicially at the alien. 
i can lay my hand upon my sacred heart and affirm that up to to day i have never take three consecutive trip by rail without be delay by an accident. that it be an accident to another train make no difference. my own turn may come next. 
a few mile from peaceful pleasure love lakewood they have manage to upset an express good train to the detriment of the flimsy permanent way. and thus the train which should have leave at three depart at seven in the even. i be not angry. i be scarcely even interest. when an american train start on time i begin to anticipate disaster a visitation for such good luck you understand. 
buffalo be a large village of a quarter of a million inhabitant situate on the seashore which be falsely call lake erie. it be a peaceful place and more like an english county town than most of it friend. 
once clear of the main business street you launch upon mile and mile of asphalt road run between cottage and cut stone residence of those who have money and peace. all the eastern city own this fringe of elegance but except in chicago nowhere be the fringe deep or more heavily widen than in buffalo. 
the american will go to a bad place because he cannot speak english and be proud of it. but he know how to make a home for himself and his mate know how to keep the grass green in front of his veranda and how to full use the mechanism of life hot water gas good bell rope telephone etc. his shop sell him delightful household fitment at very moderate rate and he be encompass with all manner of labor save appliance. this doe not prevent his wife and his daughter work themselves to death over household drudgery. but the intention be good. 
when you have see the outside of a few hundred thousand of these home and the inside of a few score you begin to understand why the american. the respectable one. doe not take a deep interest in what they call politics and why he be so vaguely and generally proud of the country that enable him to be so comfortable. how can the owner of a dainty chalet with smoke oak furniture imitation venetian tapestry curtain hot and cold water lay on a bed of geranium and hollyhock a baby crawl down the veranda and a self act twirly whirly hose gently hiss over the grass in the balmy dusk of an august even how can such a man despair of the republic or descend into the street on vote day and mix cheerfully with the boy. 
no it be the strange the homeless jackal of a strange whose interest in the country be limit to his hotel bill and a railway ticket that can run from dan to beersheba cry. all be barren. 
every good american want a home a pretty house and a little piece of land of his very own. and every other good american seem to get it. 
it be when my gigantic intellect be grapple with this question that i confirm a discovery half make in the west. the native of most class marry young absurdly young. one of my informant not the twenty two year old husband i meet on lake chautauqua say that from twenty to twenty four be about the usual time for this folly. and when i ask whether the practice be confine to the constitutionally improvident class he say no very quickly. he say it be a general custom and nobody saw anything wrong with it. 
i guess perhaps very early marriage may account for a good deal of the divorce say he reflectively. 
whereat i be silent. their marriage and their divorce only concern these people. and neither i travel nor you who may come after have any right to make rude remark about them. only only come from a land where a man begin to lightly turn to thought of love not before he be thirty i own that play at house keep before that age rather surprise me. out in the west though they marry boy and girl from sixteen upward and i have meet more than one bride of fifteen husband age twenty. 
when man and woman be agree what can the kazi do. 
from those peaceful home and the envy they inspire. two trunk and a walk stick and a bite of pine forest in british columbia be not satisfactory any way you look at them. i turn me to the lake front of buffalo where the steamer bellow to the grain elevator and the locomotive yell to the coal shute and the canal barge jostle the lumber raft half a mile long a it snake across the water in tow of a launch and earth and sky and sea alike be thick with smoke. 
in the old day before the railway run into the city all the business quarter fringe the lake shore where the traffic be large. to day the business quarter have go up town to meet the railroad. the lake traffic still exist but you shall find a narrow belt of red brick desolation break window gap toothed door and street where the grass grow between the crowd wharf and the bustle city. to the lake front come wheat from chicago lumber coal and ore and a large trade in cheap excursionist. 
it be my felicity to catch a grain steamer and an elevator empty that same steamer. the steamer might have be two thousand ton burden. she be lade with wheat in bulk. from stem to stern thirteen foot deep lay the clean red wheat. there be no twenty five per cent dirt admixture about it at all. it be wheat fit for the grindstone a it lay. they manoeuvre the fore hatch of that steamer directly under an elevator a house of red tin a hundred and fifty foot high. then they let down into that fore hatch a trunk a if it have be the trunk of an elephant but stiff because it be a pipe of iron champ wood. and the trunk have a steel shoe nose to it and contain an endless chain of steel bucket. 
then the captain swear raise his eye to heaven and a gruff voice answer him from the place he swear at and certain machinery also in the firmament begin to clack and the glitter steel shoe nose of that trunk burrow into the wheat and the wheat quiver and sink upon the instant a water sink when the siphon suck because the steel bucket within the trunk be fly upon their endless round carry away each it appoint morsel of wheat. 
the elevator be a persian well wheel a wheel squash out thin and case in a pipe a wheel drive not by bullock but by much horse power lick up the grain at the rate of thou sand of bushel the hour. and the wheat sink into the fore hatch while a man look sink till the brown timber of the bulkhead show bare and men leap down through cloud of golden dust and shovel the wheat furiously round the nose of the trunk and get a steam shovel of glitter steel and make that shovel also till there remain of the grain not more than a horse leaf in the fold of his nose bag. 
in this manner do they handle wheat at buffalo. on one side of the elevator be the steamer on the other the railway track. and the wheat be load into the car in bulk. wah. wah. god be great and i do not think he ever intend gar sahai or luckman narain to supply england with her wheat. india can cut in not without profit to herself when her harvest be good and the american yield poor. but this very big country can upon the average supply the earth with all the beef and bread that be require. 
a man in the train say to me. we kin fee all the earth jest a easily a we kin whip all the earth. 
now the second statement be a false a the first be true. one of these day the respectable republic will find this out. 
unfortunately we the english will never be the people to teach her. because she be a charter libertine allow to say and do anything she like from demand the head of the empress in an editorial waste basket to chivy canadian schooner up and down the alaska sea. it be perfectly impossible to go to war with these people whatever they may do. 
they be much too nice in the first place and in the second it would throw out all the passenger traffic of the atlantic and upset the financial arrangement of the english syndicate who have invest their money in brewery railway and the like and in the third it s not to be do. everybody know that and no one good than the american. 
yet there be other power who be not ohai band. of the brotherhood. china for instance. try to believe an irresponsible writer when he assure you that china s fleet to day if properly man could waft the entire american navy out of the water and into the blue. the big fat republic that be afraid of nothing because nothing up to the present date ha happen to make her afraid be a unprotected a a jelly fish. not internally of course it would be madness for any power to throw men into america. they would die but a far a regard coast defence. 
from five mile out at sea. i have see a test of her fortify port. a ship of the power of h. m. s. collingwood. they haven t run her on a rock yet. would wipe out any or every town from san francisco to long branch. and three first class ironclad would account for new york bartholdi s statue and all. 
reflect on this. twould be pay up or go up round the entire coast of the unite state. to this furiously answer the patriotic american. we should not pay. we should invent a columbiad in pittsburg or or anywhere else and blow any outsider into h l. 
they might invent. they might lay waste their city and retire inland for they can subsist entirely on their own produce. meantime in a war wag the only way it could be wag by an unscrupulous power their coast city and their dock yard would be ash. they could construct their navy inland if they like but you could never bring a ship down to the water way a they stand now. 
they could not with an ordinary water patrol despatch one regiment of men six mile across the sea. there would be about five million excessively angry arm men pen up within american limit. these men would require ship to get themselves afloat. the country ha no such ship and until the ship be build new york need not be allow a single wheel carriage within her limit. 
behold now the glorious condition of this republic which ha no fear. there be ransom and loot past the count of man on her seaboard alone plunder that would enrich a nation and she ha neither a navy nor half a dozen first class port to guard the whole. no man catch a snake by the tail because the creature will sting. but you can build a fire around a snake that will make it squirm. 
the country be suppose to be build a navy now. when the ship be complete her alliance will be worth have if the alliance of any republic can be rely upon. for the next three year she can be hurt and badly hurt. pity it be that she be of our own blood look at the matter from a pindarris point of view. dog cannot eat dog. 
these sinful reflection be prompt by the sight of the beautifully unprotected condition of buffalo a city that could be make to pay up five million dollar without feel it. there be her company of infantry in a sort of port there. a gun boat bring over in piece from niagara could get the money and get away before she could be catch while an unarmored gun boat guard toronto could ravage the town on the lake. when one hear so much of the nation that can whip the earth it be to say the least of it surprise to find her so temptingly spankable. 
the average american citizen seem to have a notion that any power engage in strife with the star spangle banner will disembark men from flat bottom boat on a convenient beach for the purpose of be shoot down by local militia. in his own simple phraseology. not by a darn sight. no sir. 
ransom at long range will be about the size of it cash or crash. 
let u revisit calm scene. 
in the heart of buffalo there stand a magnificent build which the population do innocently style a music hall. everybody come here of evening to sit around little table and listen to a first class orchestra. the place be something like the gaiety theatre at simla enlarge twenty time. the light brigade of buffalo occupy the box and the stage a it be at simla in the day of old and the others sit in the parquet. here i go with a friend poor or boor be the man who cannot pick up a friend for a season in america and here be show the really smart folk of the city. i grieve to say i laugh because when an american wish to be correct he set himself to imitate the englishman. this he doe vilely and earn not only the contempt of his brother but the amuse scorn of the briton. 
i saw one man who be point out to me a be the glass of fashion hereabouts. he be aggressively english in his get up. from eye glass to trouser hem the illusion be perfect but he wear with even dress button boot with brown cloth top. not till i wander about this land do i understand why the comic paper belabor the anglomaniac. 
certain young men of the more idiotic sort launch into dog cart and raiment of english cut and here in buffalo they play polo at four in the afternoon. i saw three youth come down to the polo grind faultlessly attire for the game and mount on their best pony. expect a game i linger. but i be mistake. these three shin one with the very new yellow hide boot and the red silk sash have assemble themselves for the purpose of knock the ball about. they smite with great solemnity up and down the ground while the little boy look on. when they trot which be not seldom they rise and sink in their stirrup with a conscientiousness that cry out rid school. from afar. 
other young men in the park be rid after the english manner in neatly cut rid trouser and light saddle. fate in derision have make each youth bedizen his animal with a checker enamel leather brow band visible half a mile away a black and white checker brow band. they can t do it any more than an englishman by take cold can add that indescribable nasal twang to his orchestra. 
the other sight of the even be a horror. the little tragedy play itself out at a neighbor table where two very young men and two very young woman be sit. it do not strike me till far into the even that the pimply young reprobate be make the girl drink. they give them red wine and then white and the voice rise slightly with the maiden cheek flush. i watch wish to stay and the youth drink till their speech thicken and their eye ball grow watery. it be sicken to see because i know what be go to happen. my friend eye the group and say. maybe they re child of respectable people. i hardly think though they d be allow out without any good escort than these boy. and yet the place be a place where every one come a you see. they may be little immorality in which case they wouldn t be so hopelessly overcome with two glass of wine. they may be. 
whatever they be they get indubitably drink there in that lovely hall surround by the best of buffalo society. one could do nothing except invoke the judgment of heaven on the two boy themselves half sick with liquor. at the close of the performance the quiet maiden laugh vacantly and protest she couldn t keep her foot. the four link arm and stagger flicker out into the street drink gentleman and lady a davy s swine drink a lord. they disappear down a side avenue but i could hear their laughter long after they be out of sight. 
and they be all four child of sixteen and seventeen. then recant previous opinion i become a prohibitionist. good it be that a man should go without his beer in public place and content himself with swear at the narrow mindedness of the majority. good it be to poison the inside with very vile temperance drink and to buy lager furtively at back door than to bring temptation to the lip of young fool such a the four i have see. i understand now why the preacher rage against drink. i have say. there be no harm in it take moderately. and yet my own demand for beer help directly to send those two girl reel down the dark street to god alone know what end. 
if liquor be worth drink it be worth take a little trouble to come at such trouble a a man will undergo to compass his own desire. it be not good that we should let it lie before the eye of child and i have be a fool in write to the contrary. very sorry for myself i seek a hotel and find in the hall a reporter who wish to know what i think of the country. him i lure into conversation about his own profession and from him gain much that confirm me in my view of the grind tyranny of that thing which they call the press here. thus. i but you talk about interview people whether they like it or not. have you no bound beyond which even your indecent curiosity must not go. 
he i haven t strike em yet. what do you think of interview a widow two hour after her husband s death to get her version of his life. 
i i think that be the work of a ghoul. must the people have no privacy. 
he there be no domestic privacy in america. if there be what the deuce would the paper do. see here. some time ago i have an assignment to write up the floral tribute when a prominent citizen have die. 
i translate please. i do not understand your pagan rite and ceremony. 
he i be order by the office to describe the flower and wreath and so on that have be send to a dead man s funeral. well i go to the house. there be no one there to stop me so i yank the tinkler pull the bell and drift into the room where the corpse lay all among the rose and smilax. i whip out my note book and paw around among the floral tribute turn ing up the ticket on the wreath and see who have send them. in the middle of this i hear some one say. please oh please. behind me and there stand the daughter of the house just bath in tear i you unmitigated brute. 
he pretty much what i felt myself. i m very sorry miss i say to intrude on the privacy of your grief. trust me i shall make it a little painful a possible. 
i but by what conceivable right do you outrage he hold your horse. i m tell you. well she didn t want me in the house at all and between her sob fairly wave me away. i have half the tribute describe though and the balance i do partly on the step when the stiff un come out and partly in the church. the preacher give the sermon. that wasn t my assignment. i skip about among the floral tribute while he be talk. i could have make no excuse if i have go back to the office and say that a pretty girl s sob have stop me obey order. i have to do it. what do you think of it all. 
i. slowly. do you want to know. 
he. with his note book ready. of course. how do you regard it. 
i it make me regard your interest nation with the same shudder curiosity that i should bestow on a pappan cannibal chew the scalp off his mother s skull. doe that convey any idea to your mind. it make me regard the whole pack of you a heathen real heathen not the sort you send mission to creature of another flesh and blood. you ought to have be shoot not dead but through the stomach for your share in the scandalous business and the thing you call your newspaper ought to have be sack by the mob and the manage proprietor hang. 
he from which i suppose you have nothing of that kind in your country. 
oh. pioneer venerable pioneer and you not le honest press of india who be occasionally dull but never blackguardly what could i say. a mere no shout never so loudly would not have meet the need of the case. i say no word. 
the reporter go away and i take a train for niagara fall which be twenty two mile distant from this bad town where girl get drink of night and reporter trample on corps in the draw room of the brave and the free. 
