under the deodar. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
the education of otis yeere at the pit s mouth a wayside comedy the hill of illusion a second rate woman only a subaltern in the matter of a private the enlightenment of pagett. m. p. 
under the deodar. 
the education of otis yeere. 
i. 
in the pleasant orchard close god bless all our gain say we. but may god bless all our loss good suit with our degree. the lose bower. 
this be the history of a failure. but the woman who fail say that it might be an instructive tale to put into print for the benefit of the young generation. the young generation doe not want instruction be perfectly will to instruct if any one will listen to it. none the le here begin the story where every right mind story should begin that be to say at simla where all thing begin and many come to an evil end. 
the mistake be due to a very clever woman make a blunder and not retrieve it. men be license to stumble but a clever woman s mistake be outside the regular course of nature and providence. since all good people know that a woman be the only infallible thing in this world except government paper of the issue bear interest at four and a half per cent. yet we have to remember that six consecutive day of rehearse the lead part of the fall angel at the new gaiety theatre where the plaster be not yet properly dry might have bring about an unhingement of spirit which again might have lead to eccentricity. 
mr. hauksbee come to the foundry to tiffin with mr. mallowe her one bosom friend for she be in no sense a woman s woman. and it be a woman s tiffin the door shut to all the world. and they both talk chiffon which be french for mystery. 
i ve enjoy an interval of sanity mr. hauksbee announce after tiffin be over and the two be comfortably settle in the little write room that open out of mr. mallowe s bedroom. 
my dear girl what ha he do. say mr. mallowe sweetly. it be noticeable that lady of a certain age call each other dear girl just a commissioner of twenty eight year stand address their equal in the civil list a my boy. 
there s no he in the case. who be i that an imaginary man should be always credit to me. be i an apache. 
no dear but somebody s scalp be generally dry at your wigwam door. soak rather. 
this be an allusion to the hawley boy who be in the habit of rid all across simla in the rain to call on mr. hauksbee. that lady laugh. 
for my sin the aide at tyrconnel last night tell me off to the mussuck. hsh. don t laugh. one of my most devote admirer. when the duff come some one really ought to teach them to make pudding at tyrconnel the mussuck be at liberty to attend to me. 
sweet soul. i know his appetite say mr. mallowe. do he oh do he begin his woo. 
by a special mercy of providence no. he explain his importance a a pillar of the empire. i didn t laugh. 
lucy i don t believe you. 
ask captain sangar. he be on the other side. well a i be say the mussuck dilate. 
i think i can see him do it say mr. mallowe pensively scratch her fox terrier s ear. 
i be properly impress. most properly. i yawn openly. strict supervision and play them off one against the other say the mussuck shovel down his ice by tureenfuls i assure you. that mr. hauksbee be the secret of our government. 
mr. mallowe laugh long and merrily. and what do you say. 
do you ever know me at loss for an answer yet. i say. so i have observe in my dealing with you. the mussuck swell with pride. he be come to call on me to morrow. the hawley boy be come too. 
strict supervision and play them off one against the other. that mr. hauksbee be the secret of our government. and i daresay if we could get to the mussuck s heart we should find that he consider himself a man of the world. 
a he be of the other two thing. i like the mussuck and i win t have you call him name. he amuse me. 
he ha reform you too by what appear. explain the interval of sanity and hit tim on the nose with the paper cutter please. that dog be too fond of sugar. do you take milk in yours. 
no thank. polly i m weary of this life. it s hollow. 
turn religious then. i always say that rome would be your fate. 
only exchange half a dozen attache in red for one in black and if i fast the wrinkle would come and never never go. ha it ever strike you dear that i m get old. 
thank for your courtesy. i ll return it. ye e we be both not exactly how shall i put it. 
what we have be. i feel it in my bone a mr. crossley say. polly i ve waste my life. 
a how. 
never mind how. i feel it. i want to be a power before i die. 
be a power then. you ve wit enough for anything and beauty. 
mr. hauksbee point a teaspoon straight at her host. polly if you heap compliment on me like this i shall cease to believe that you re a woman. tell me how i be to be a power. 
inform the mussuck that he be the most fascinate and slim man in asia and he ll tell you anything and everything you please. 
bother the mussuck. i mean an intellectual power not a gas power. polly i m go to start a salon. 
mr. mallowe turn lazily on the sofa and rest her head on her hand. hear the word of the preacher the son of baruch she say. 
will you talk sensibly. 
i will dear for i see that you be go to make a mistake. 
i never make a mistake in my life at least never one that i couldn t explain away afterwards. 
go to make a mistake go on mr. mallowe composedly. it be impossible to start a salon in simla. a bar would be much more to the point. 
perhaps but why. it seem so easy. 
just what make it so difficult. how many clever woman be there in simla. 
myself and yourself say mr. hauksbee without a moment s hesitation. 
modest woman. mr. feardon would thank you for that. and how many clever men. 
oh er hundred say mr. hauksbee vaguely. 
what a fatal blunder. not one. they be all bespeak by the government. take my husband for instance. jack be a clever man though i say so who shouldn t. government ha eat him up. all his idea and power of conversation he really use to be a good talker even to his wife in the old day be take from him by this this kitchen sink of a government. that s the case with every man up here who be at work. i don t suppose a russian convict under the knout be able to amuse the rest of his gang. and all our men folk here be gild convict. 
but there be score. 
i know what you re go to say. score of idle men up on leave. i admit it but they be all of two objectionable set. the civilian who d be delightful if he have the military man s knowledge of the world and style and the military man who d be adorable if he have the civilian s culture. 
detestable word. have civilian culchaw. i never study the breed deeply. 
don t make fun of jack s service. yes. they re like the teapoys in the lakka bazar good material but not polish. they can t help themselves poor dear. a civilian only begin to be tolerable after he ha knock about the world for fifteen year. 
and a military man. 
when he ha have the same amount of service. the young of both specie be horrible. you would have score of them in your salon. 
i would not. say mr. hauksbee fiercely. 
i would tell the bearer to darwaza band them. i d put their own colonel and commissioner at the door to turn them away. i d give them to the topsham girl to play with. 
the topsham girl would be grateful for the gift. but to go back to the salon. allow that you have gather all your men and woman together what would you do with them. make them talk. they would all with one accord begin to flirt. your salon would become a glorify peliti s a scandal point by lamplight. 
there s a certain amount of wisdom in that view. 
there s all the wisdom in the world in it. surely twelve simla season ought to have teach you that you can t focus anything in india. and a salon to be any good at all must be permanent. in two season your roomful would be scatter all over asia. we be only little bit of dirt on the hillside here one day and blow down the road the next. we have lose the art of talk at least our men have. we have no cohesion. 
george eliot in the flesh interpolate mr. hauksbee wickedly. 
and collectively my dear scoffer we men and woman alike have no influence. come into the verandah and look at the mall. 
the two look down on the now rapidly fill road for all simla be abroad to steal a stroll between a shower and a fog. 
how do you propose to fix that river. look. there s the mussuck head of goodness know what. he be a power in the land though he doe eat like a costermonger. there s colonel blone and general grucher and sir dugald delane and sir henry haughton and mr. jellalatty. all head of department and all powerful. 
and all my fervent admirer say mr. hauksbee piously. sir henry haughton raf about me. but go on. 
one by one these men be worth something. collectively they re just a mob of anglo indian. who care for what anglo indian say. your salon win t weld the department together and make you mistress of india dear. and these creature win t talk administrative shop in a crowd your salon because they be so afraid of the men in the low rank overhear it. they have forget what of literature and art they ever know and the woman. 
can t talk about anything except the last gymkhana or the sin of their last nurse. i be call on mr. derwills this morning. 
you admit that. they can talk to the subaltern though and the subaltern can talk to them. your salon would suit their view admirably if you respect the religious prejudice of the country and provide plenty of kala juggahs. 
plenty of kala juggahs. oh my poor little idea. kala juggahs in a salon. but who make you so awfully clever. 
perhaps i ve try myself. or perhaps i know a woman who ha. i have preach and expound the whole matter and the conclusion thereof. 
you needn t go on. be vanity. polly i thank you. these vermin mr. hauksbee wave her hand from the verandah to two men in the crowd below who have raise their hat to her these vermin shall not rejoice in a new scandal point or an extra peliti s. i will abandon the notion of a salon. it do seem so tempt though. but what shall i do. i must do something. 
why. be not abana and pharpar. 
jack ha make you nearly a bad a himself. i want to of course. i m tire of everything and everybody from a moonlight picnic at seepee to the blandishment of the mussuck. 
yes that come too sooner or late. have you nerve enough to make your bow yet. 
mr. hauksbee s mouth shut grimly. then she laugh. i think i see myself do it. big pink placard on the mall. mr. hauksbee. positively her last appearance on any stage. this be to give notice. no more dance. no more ride. no more luncheon. no more theatrical with supper to follow. no more spar with one s dear dear friend. no more fence with an inconvenient man who hasn t wit enough to clothe what he s please to call his sentiment in passable speech. no more parade of the mussuck while mr. tarkass call all round simla spread horrible story about me. no more of anything that be thoroughly weary abominable and detestable but all the same make life worth the have. yes. i see it all. don t interrupt polly i m inspire. a mauve and white strip cloud round my excellent shoulder a seat in the fifth row of the gaiety and both horse sell. delightful vision. a comfortable arm chair situate in three different draught at every ball room. and nice large sensible shoe for all the couple to stumble over a they go into the verandah. then at supper. can t you imagine the scene. the greedy mob go away. reluctant subaltern pink all over like a newly powder baby they really ought to tan subaltern before they be export polly send back by the host to do his duty. slouch up to me across the room tug at a glove two size too large for him i hate a man who wear glove like overcoat and try to look a if he d think of it from the first. may i ah have the pleasure f takin you nt supper. then i get up with a hungry smile. just like this. 
lucy how can you be so absurd. 
and sweep out on his arm. so. after supper i shall go away early you know because i shall be afraid of catch cold. no one will look for my rickshaw. mine so please you. i shall stand always with that mauve and white cloud over my head while the wet soak into my dear old venerable foot and tom swear and shout for the mem sahib s gharri. then home to bed at half past eleven. truly excellent life help out by the visit of the padri just fresh from bury somebody down below there. she point through the pine toward the cemetery and continue with vigorous dramatic gesture. 
listen. i see it all down down even to the stay. such stay. six eight a pair polly with red flannel or list be it. that they put into the top of those fearful thing. i can draw you a picture of them. 
lucy for heaven s sake don t go wave your arm about in that idiotic manner. recollect every one can see you from the mall. 
let them see. they ll think i be rehearse for the fall angel. look. there s the mussuck. how badly he ride. there. 
she blow a kiss to the venerable indian administrator with infinite grace. 
now she continue he ll be chaff about that at the club in the delicate manner those brute of men affect and the hawley boy will tell me all about it soften the detail for fear of shock me. that boy be too good to live polly. i ve serious thought of recommend him to throw up his commission and go into the church. in his present frame of mind he would obey me. happy happy child. 
never again say mr. mallowe with an affectation of indignation shall you tiffin here. lucindy your behaviour be scand lu. 
all your fault retort mr. hauksbee for suggest such a thing a my abdication. no. jamais. nevaire. i will act dance ride frivol talk scandal dine out and appropriate the legitimate captive of any woman i choose until i d r r rop or a good woman than i put me to shame before all simla and it s dust and ash in my mouth while i m do it. 
she sweep into the draw room. mr. mallowe follow and put an arm round her waist. 
i m not. say mr. hauksbee defiantly rummage for her handkerchief. i ve be din out the last ten night and rehearse in the afternoon. you d be tire yourself. it s only because i m tire. 
mr. mallowe do not offer mr. hauksbee any pity or ask her to lie down but give her another cup of tea and go on with the talk. 
i ve be through that too dear she say. 
i remember say mr. hauksbee a gleam of fun on her face. in wasn t it. you go out a great deal le next season. 
mr. mallowe smile in a superior and sphinx like fashion. 
i become an influence say she. 
good gracious child you didn t join the theosophist and kiss buddha s big toe do you. i try to get into their set once but they cast me out for a sceptic without a chance of improve my poor little mind too. 
no i didn t theosophilander. jack say. 
never mind jack. what a husband say be know before. what do you do. 
i make a last impression. 
so have i for four month. but that didn t console me in the least. i hat the man. will you stop smile in that inscrutable way and tell me what you mean. 
mr. mallowe tell. 
and you mean to say that it be absolutely platonic on both side. 
absolutely or i should never have take it up. 
and his last promotion be due to you. 
mr. mallowe nod. 
and you warn him against the topsham girl. 
another nod. 
and tell him of sir dugald delane s private memo about him. 
a third nod. 
why. 
what a question to ask a woman. because it amuse me at first. i be proud of my property now. if i live he shall continue to be successful. yes i will put him upon the straight road to knighthood and everything else that a man value. the rest depend upon himself. 
polly you be a most extraordinary woman. 
not in the least. i m concentrate that s all. you diffuse yourself dear. and though all simla know your skill in manage a team. 
can t you choose a pretty word. 
team of half a dozen from the mussuck to the hawley boy you gain nothing by it. not even amusement. 
and you. 
try my recipe. take a man not a boy mind but an almost mature unattached man and be his guide philosopher and friend. you ll find it the most interest occupation that you ever embark on. it can be do you needn t look like that because i ve do it. 
there s an element of risk about it that make the notion attractive. i ll get such a man and say to him now understand that there must be no flirtation. do exactly what i tell you profit by my instruction and counsel and all will yet be well. be that the idea. 
more or le say mr. mallowe with an unfathomable smile. but be sure he understand. 
ii. 
dribble dribble trickle trickle what a lot of raw dust. my dollie s have an accident and out come all the sawdust. 
nursery rhyme. 
so mr. hauksbee in the foundry which overlook simla mall sit at the foot of mr. mallowe and gather wisdom. the end of the conference be the great idea upon which mr. hauksbee so plume herself. 
i warn you say mr. mallowe begin to repent of her suggestion that the matter be not half so easy a it look. any woman even the topsham girl can catch a man but very very few know how to manage him when catch. 
my child be the answer i ve be a female st. simon stylite look down upon men for these these year past. ask the mussuck whether i can manage them. 
mr. hauksbee depart hum i ll go to him and say to him in manner most ironical. mr. mallowe laugh to herself. then she grow suddenly sober. i wonder whether i ve do well in advise that amusement. lucy s a clever woman but a think too careless. 
a week late the two meet at a monday pop. well. say mr. mallowe. 
i ve catch him. say mr. hauksbee. her eye be dance with merriment. 
who be it mad woman. i m sorry i ever speak to you about it. 
look between the pillar. in the third row. fourth from the end. you can see his face now. look. 
otis yeere. of all the improbable and impossible people. i don t believe you. 
hsh. wait till mr. tarkass begin murder milton well. and i ll tell you all about it. s s s. that woman s voice always remind me of an underground train come into earl s court with the brake on. now listen. it be really otis yeere. 
so i see but doe it follow that he be your property. 
he be. by right of trove. i find him lonely and unbefriended the very next night after our talk at the dugald delanes burra khana. i like his eye and i talk to him. next day he call. next day we go for a ride together and to day he s tie to my richshaw wheel hand and foot. you ll see when the concert s over. he doesn t know i m here yet. 
thank goodness you haven t choose a boy. what be you go to do with him assume that you ve get him. 
assume indeed. doe a woman do i ever make a mistake in that sort of thing. first mr. hauksbee tick off the item ostentatiously on her little gloved finger first my dear i shall dress him properly. at present his raiment be a disgrace and he wear a dress shirt like a crumple sheet of the pioneer. secondly after i have make him presentable i shall form his manner his moral be above reproach. 
you seem to have discover a great deal about him consider the shortness of your acquaintance. 
surely you ought to know that the first proof a man give of his interest in a woman be by talk to her about his own sweet self. if the woman listen without yawn he begin to like her. if she flatter the animal s vanity he end by adore her. 
in some case. 
never mind the exception. i know which one you be think of. thirdly and lastly after he be polish and make pretty i shall a you say be his guide philosopher and friend and he shall become a success a great a success a your friend. i always wonder how that man get on. do the mussuck come to you with the civil list and drop on one knee no two knee a la gibbon hand it to you and say adorable angel choose your friend s appointment. 
lucy your long experience of the military department have demoralise you. one doesn t do that sort of thing on the civil side. 
no disrespect mean to jack s service my dear. i only ask for information. give me three month and see what change i shall work in my prey. 
go your own way since you must. but i m sorry that i be weak enough to suggest the amusement. 
i be all discretion and may be trust to an in fin ite extent quote mr. hauksbee from the fall angel. and the conversation cease with mr. tarkass s last long draw war whoop. 
her bitter enemy and she have many could hardly accuse mr. hauksbee of waste her time. otis yeere be one of those wander dumb character foredoom through life to be nobody s property. ten year in her majesty s bengal civil service spend for the most part in undesirable district have give him little to be proud of and nothing to bring confidence. old enough to have lose the first fine careless rapture that shower on the immature stunt imaginary commissionerships and star and send him into the collar with coltish earnestness and abandon. too young to be yet able to look back upon the progress he have make and thank providence that under the condition of the day he have come even so far he stand upon the dead centre of his career. and when a man stand still he feel the slight impulse from without. fortune have rule that otis yeere should be for the first part of his service one of the rank and file who be grind up in the wheel of the administration. lose heart and soul and mind and strength in the process. until steam replace manual power in the work of the empire there must always be this percentage must always be the men who be use up expend in the mere mechanical routine. for these promotion be far off and the mill grind of every day very instant. the secretariat know them only by name. they be not the pick men of the district with division and collectorates await them. they be simply the rank and file the food for fever share with the ryot and the plough bullock the honour of be the plinth on which the state rest. the old one have lose their aspiration. the young be put theirs aside with a sigh. both learn to endure patiently until the end of the day. twelve year in the rank and file men say will sap the heart of the brave and dull the wit of the most keen. 
out of this life otis yeere have flee for a few month. drift in the hope of a little masculine society into simla. when his leave be over he would return to his swampy sour green under man bengal district. to the native assistant the native doctor the native magistrate the steam swelter station the ill kempt city and the undisguised insolence of the municipality that babble away the life of men. life be cheap however. the soil spawn humanity a it breed frog in the rain and the gap of the sickness of one season be fill to overflow by the fecundity of the next. otis be unfeignedly thankful to lay down his work for a little while and escape from the seethe whine weakly hive impotent to help itself but strong in it power to cripple thwart and annoy the sunkeneyed man who by official irony be say to be in charge of it. 
i know there be woman dowdy in bengal. they come up here sometimes. but i didn t know that there be men dowds too. 
then for the first time it occur to otis yeere that his clothe wear rather the mark of the age. it will be see that his friendship with mr. hauksbee have make great stride. 
a that lady truthfully say a man be never so happy a when he be talk about himself. from otis yeere s lip mr. hauksbee before long learn everything that she wish to know about the subject of her experiment. learn what manner of life he have lead in what she vaguely call those awful cholera district. learn too but this knowledge come late what manner of life he have purpose to lead and what dream he have dream in the year of grace before the reality have knock the heart out of him. very pleasant be the shady bridle path round prospect hill for the tell of such confidence. 
not yet say mr. hauksbee to mr. maliowe. not yet. i must wait until the man be properly dress at least. great heaven be it possible that he doesn t know what an honour it be to be take up by me. 
mr. hauksbee do not reckon false modesty a one of her failing. 
always with mr. hauksbee. murmur mr. mallowe with her sweet smile to otis. oh you men you men. here be our punjabi growl because you ve monopolise the nice woman in simla. they ll tear you to piece on the mall some day mr. yeere. 
mr. mallowe rattle downhill have satisfy herself by a glance through the fringe of her sunshade of the effect of her word. 
the shoot go home. of a surety otis yeere be somebody in this bewilder whirl of simla have monopolise the nice woman in it and the punjabi be growl. the notion justify a mild glow of vanity. he have never look upon his acquaintance with mr. hauksbee a a matter for general interest. 
the knowledge of envy be a pleasant feel to the man of no account. it be intensify late in the day when a luncher at the club say spitefully well for a debilitate ditcher yeere you be go it. hasn t any kind friend tell you that she s the most dangerous woman in simla. 
yeere chuckle and pass out. when oh when would his new clothe be ready. he descend into the mall to inquire. and mr. hauksbee come over the church ridge in her rickshaw look down upon him approvingly. he s learn to carry himself a if he be a man instead of a piece of furniture and she screw up her eye to see the good through the sunlight he be a man when he hold himself like that. o bless conceit what should we be without you. 
with the new clothe come a new stock of self confidence. otis yeere discover that he could enter a room without break into a gentle perspiration could cross one even to talk to mr. hauksbee a though room be mean to be cross. he be for the first time in nine year proud of himself and content with his life satisfy with his new clothe and rejoice in the friendship of mr. hauksbee. 
conceit be what the poor fellow want she say in confidence to mr. mallowe. i believe they must use civilian to plough the field with in low bengal. you see i have to begin from the very begin haven t i. but you ll admit win t you dear that he be immensely improve since i take him in hand. only give me a little more time and he win t know himself. 
indeed yeere be rapidly begin to forget what he have be. one of his own rank and file put the matter brutally when he ask yeere in reference to nothing and who ha be make you a member of council lately. you carry the side of half a dozen of em. 
i i m awf ly sorry. i didn t mean it you know say yeere apologetically. 
there ll be no hold you continue the old stager grimly. climb down otis climb down and get all that beastly affectation knock out of you with fever. three thousand a month wouldn t support it. 
yeere repeat the incident to mr. hauksbee. he have come to look upon her a his mother confessor. 
and you apologise. she say. oh shame. i hate a man who apologise. never apologise for what your friend call side. never. it s a man s business to be insolent and overbear until he meet with a strong. now you bad boy listen to me. 
simply and straightforwardly a the rickshaw loiter round jakko mr. hauksbee preach to otis yeere the great gospel of conceit illustrate it with live picture encounter during their sunday afternoon stroll. 
good gracious. she end with the personal argument you ll apologise next for be my attache. 
never. say otis yeere. that s another thing altogether. i shall always be. 
what s come. think mr. hauksbee. 
proud of that say otis. 
safe for the present she say to herself. 
but i m afraid i have grow conceited. like jeshurun you know. when he wax fat then he kick. it s the have no worry on one s mind and the hill air i suppose. 
hill air indeed. say mr. hauksbee to herself. he d have be hide in the club till the last day of his leave if i hadn t discover him. and aloud. 
why shouldn t you be. you have every right to. 
i. why. 
oh hundred of thing. i m not go to waste this lovely afternoon by explain. but i know you have. what be that heap of manuscript you show me about the grammar of the aboriginal what s their name. 
gullals. a piece of nonsense. i ve far too much work to do to bother over gullals now. you should see my district. come down with your husband some day and i ll show you round. such a lovely place in the rain. a sheet of water with the railway embankment and the snake stick out and in the summer green fly and green squash. the people would die of fear if you shake a dogwhip at em. but they know you re forbid to do that so they conspire to make your life a burden to you. my district s work by some man at darjiling on the strength of a native pleader s false report. oh it s a heavenly place. 
otis yeere laugh bitterly. 
there s not the least necessity that you should stay in it. why do you. 
because i must. how m i to get out of it. 
how. in a hundred and fifty way. if there weren t so many people on the road i d like to box your ear. ask my dear boy ask. look. there be young hexarly with six year service and half your talent. he ask for what he want and he get it. see down by the convent. there s mcarthurson who ha come to his present position by ask sheer downright ask after he have push himself out of the rank and file. one man be a good a another in your service believe me. i ve see simla for more season than i care to think about. do you suppose men be choose for appointment because of their special fitness beforehand. you have all pass a high test what do you call it. in the begin and except for the few who have go altogether to the bad you can all work hard. ask doe the rest. call it cheek call it insolence call it anything you like but ask. men argue yes i know what men say that a man by the mere audacity of his request must have some good in him. a weak man doesn t say. give me this and that. he whine. why haven t i be give this and that. if you be in the army i should say learn to spin plate or play a tambourine with your toe. a it be ask. you belong to a service that ought to be able to command the channel fleet or set a leg at twenty minute notice and yet you hesitate over ask to escape from a squashy green district where you admit you be not master. drop the bengal government altogether. even darjiling be a little out of the way hole. i be there once and the rent be extortionate. assert yourself. get the government of india to take you over. try to get on the frontier where every man ha a grand chance if he can trust himself. go somewhere. do something. you have twice the wit and three time the presence of the men up here and and mr. hauksbee pause for breath. then continue and in any way you look at it you ought to. you who could go so far. 
i don t know say yeere rather take aback by the unexpected eloquence. i haven t such a good opinion of myself. 
it be not strictly platonic but it be policy. mr. hauksbee lay her hand lightly upon the ungloved paw that rest on the turn back rickshaw hood and look the man full in the face say tenderly almost too tenderly i believe in you if you mistrust yourself. be that enough my friend. 
it be enough answer otis very solemnly. 
he be silent for a long time redreaming the dream that he have dream eight year ago but through them all run a sheet lightning through golden cloud the light of mr. hauksbee s violet eye. 
curious and impenetrable be the maze of simla life the only existence in this desolate land worth the live. gradually it go abroad among men and woman in the pause between dance play and gymkhana that otis yeere the man with the newly light light of self confidence in his eye have do something decent in the wild whence he come. he have bring an err municipality to reason appropriate the fund on his own responsibility and save the life of hundred. he know more about the gullals than any live man. have a vast knowledge of the aboriginal tribe. be in spite of his juniority the great authority on the aboriginal gullals. no one quite know who or what the gullals be till the mussuck who have be call on mr. hauksbee and pride himself upon pick people s brain explain they be a tribe of ferocious hillmen somewhere near sikkim whose friendship even the great indian empire would find it worth her while to secure. now we know that otis yeere have show mr. hauksbee his m. note of six year stand on these same gullals. he have tell her too how sick and shake with the fever their negligence have breed cripple by the loss of his pet clerk and savagely angry at the desolation in his charge he have once damn the collective eye of his intelligent local board for a set of haramzadas. which act of brutal and tyrannous oppression win him a reprimand royal from the bengal government. but in the anecdote a amend for northern consumption we find no record of this. hence we be force to conclude that mr. hauksbee edit his reminiscence before sow them in idle ear ready a she well know to exaggerate good or evil. and otis yeere bore himself a befit the hero of many tale. 
you can talk to me when you don t fall into a brown study. talk now and talk your bright and best say mr. hauksbee. 
otis need no spur. look to a man who ha the counsel of a woman of or above the world to back him. so long a he keep his head he can meet both sex on equal grind an advantage never intend by providence who fashion man on one day and woman on another in sign that neither should know more than a very little of the other s life. such a man go far or the counsel be withdraw collapse suddenly while his world seek the reason. 
generalled by mr. hauksbee who again have all mr. mallowe s wisdom at her disposal proud of himself and in the end believe in himself because he be believe in otis yeere stand ready for any fortune that might befall certain that it would be good. he would fight for his own hand and intend that this second struggle should lead to good issue than the first helpless surrender of the bewilder stunt. 
what might have happen it be impossible to say. this lamentable thing befall breed directly by a statement of mr. hauksbee that she would spend the next season in darjiling. 
be you certain of that. say otis yeere. 
quite. we re write about a house now. 
otis yeere stop dead a mr. hauksbee put it in discuss the relapse with mr. mallowe. 
he ha behave she say angrily just like captain kerrington s pony only otis be a donkey at the last gymkhana. plant his forefoot and refuse to go on another step. polly my man s go to disappoint me. what shall i do. 
a a rule mr. mallowe doe not approve of star but on this occasion she open her eye to the utmost. 
you have manage cleverly so far she say. speak to him and ask him what he mean. 
i will at to night s dance. 
no o not at a dance say mr. mallowe cautiously. men be never themselves quite at dance. good wait till to morrow morning. 
nonsense. if he s go to vert in this insane way there isn t a day to lose. be you go. no. then sit up for me there s a dear. i shan t stay long than supper under any circumstance. 
mr. mallowe wait through the even look long and earnestly into the fire and sometimes smile to herself. 
oh. oh. oh. the man s an idiot. a rave positive idiot. i m sorry i ever saw him. 
mr. hauksbee burst into mr. mallowe s house at midnight almost in tear. 
what in the world ha happen. say mr. mallowe but her eye show that she have guess an answer. 
happen. everything ha happen. he be there. i go to him and say now what doe this nonsense mean. don t laugh dear i can t bear it. but you know what i mean i say. then it be a square and i sit it out with him and want an explanation and he say oh. i haven t patience with such idiot. you know what i say about go to darjiling next year. it doesn t matter to me where i go. i d have change the station and lose the rent to have save this. he say in so many word that he wasn t go to try to work up any more because because he would be shift into a province away from darjiling and his own district where these creature be be within a day s journey. 
ah hh. say mr. mallowe in a tone of one who ha successfully track an obscure word through a large dictionary. 
do you ever hear of anything so mad so absurd. and he have the ball at his foot. he have only to kick it. i would have make him anything. anything in the wide world. he could have go to the world s end. i would have help him. i make him didn t i polly. didn t i create that man. doesn t he owe everything to me. and to reward me just when everything be nicely arrange by this lunacy that spoil everything. 
very few men understand your devotion thoroughly. 
oh polly don t laugh at me. i give men up from this hour. i could have kill him then and there. what right have this man this thing i have pick out of his filthy paddy field to make love to me. 
he do that do he. 
he do. i don t remember half he say i be so angry. oh but such a funny thing happen. i can t help laugh at it now though i felt nearly ready to cry with rage. he rave and i storm i m afraid we must have make an awful noise in our kala juggah. protect my character dear if it s all over simla by to morrow and then he bob forward in the middle of this insanity i firmly believe the man s demented and kiss me. 
moral above reproach purr mr. mallowe. 
so they be so they be. it be the most absurd kiss. i don t believe he d ever kiss a woman in his life before. i throw my head back and it be a sort of slidy peck dab just on the end of the chin here. mr. hauksbee tap her masculine little chin with her fan. then of course i be furiously angry and tell him that he be no gentleman and i be sorry i d ever meet him and so on. he be crush so easily then i couldn t be very angry. then i come away straight to you. 
be this before or after supper. 
oh. before ocean before. isn t it perfectly disgust. 
let me think. i withhold judgment till tomorrow. morning bring counsel. 
but morning bring only a servant with a dainty bouquet of annandale rose for mr. hauksbee to wear at the dance at viceregal lodge that night. 
he doesn t seem to be very penitent say mr. mallowe. what s the billet doux in the centre. 
mr. hauksbee open the neatly fold note another accomplishment that she have teach otis read it and groan tragically. 
last wreck of a feeble intellect. poetry. be it his own do you think. oh that i ever build my hope on such a maudlin idiot. 
no. it s a quotation from mr. brown and in view of the fact of the case a jack say uncommonly well choose. listen. 
sweet thou hast tread on a heart pas. there s a world full of men. and woman a fair a thou art must do such thing now and then. thou only hast step unaware malice not one can impute. and why should a heart have be there in the way of a fair woman s foot. 
i didn t i didn t i didn t. say mr. hauksbee angrily her eye fill with tear. there be no malice at all. oh it s too vexatious. 
you ve misunderstand the compliment say mr. mallowe. he clear you completely and ahem i should think by this that he ha clear completely too. my experience of men be that when they begin to quote poetry they be go to flit. like swan sing before they die you know. 
polly you take my sorrow in a most unfeeling way. 
do i. be it so terrible. if he s hurt your vanity i should say that you ve do a certain amount of damage to his heart. 
oh you can never tell about a man. say mr. hauksbee. 
at the pit s mouth. 
men say it be a steal tide the lord that send it he know all but in mine ear will aye abide the message that the bell let fall and awesome bell they be to me that in the dark ring enderby. jean ingelow. 
once upon a time there be a man and his wife and a tertium quid. 
all three be unwise but the wife be the unwise. the man should have look after his wife who should have avoid the tertium quid who again should have marry a wife of his own after clean and open flirtation to which nobody can possibly object round jakko or observatory hill. when you see a young man with his pony in a white lather and his hat on the back of his head fly downhill at fifteen mile an hour to meet a girl who will be properly surprise to meet him you naturally approve of that young man and wish him staff appointment and take an interest in his welfare and a the proper time come give them sugar tongs or side saddle accord to your mean and generosity. 
the tertium quid fly downhill on horseback but it be to meet the man s wife. and when he fly uphill it be for the same end. the man be in the plain earn money for his wife to spend on dress and four hundred rupee bracelet and inexpensive luxury of that kind. he work very hard and send her a letter or a post card daily. she also write to him daily and say that she be long for him to come up to simla. the tertium quid use to lean over her shoulder and laugh a she write the note. then the two would ride to the post office together. 
now simla be a strange place and it custom be peculiar. nor be any man who ha not spend at least ten season there qualify to pas judgment on circumstantial evidence which be the most untrustworthy in the court. for these reason and for others which need not appear i decline to state positively whether there be anything irretrievably wrong in the relation between the man s wife and the tertium quid. if there be and hereon you must form your own opinion it be the man s wife s fault. she be kittenish in her manner wear generally an air of soft and fluffy innocence. but she be deadlily learn and evil instruct. and now and again when the mask drop men saw this shudder and almost draw back. men be occasionally particular and the least particular men be always the most exact. 
simla be eccentric in it fashion of treat friendship. certain attachment which have set and crystallise through half a dozen season acquire almost the sanctity of the marriage bond and be revere a such. again certain attachment equally old and to all appearance equally venerable never seem to win any recognise official status. while a chance spring acquaintance not two month bear step into the place which by right belong to the senior. there be no law reducible to print which regulate these affair. 
some people have a gift which secure them infinite toleration and others have not. the man s wife have not. if she look over the garden wall for instance woman tax her with steal their husband. she complain pathetically that she be not allow to choose her own friend. when she put up her big white muff to her lip and gaze over it and under her eyebrow at you a she say this thing you felt that she have be infamously misjudge and that all the other woman s instinct be all wrong. which be absurd. she be not allow to own the tertium quid in peace. and be so strangely construct that she would not have enjoy peace have she be so permit. she prefer some semblance of intrigue to cloak even her most commonplace action. 
after two month of rid first round jakko then elysium then summer hill then observatory hill then under jutogh and lastly up and down the cart road a far a the tara devi gap in the dusk she say to the tertium quid frank people say we be too much together and people be so horrid. 
the tertium quid pull his moustache and reply that horrid people be unworthy of the consideration of nice people. 
but they have do more than talk they have write write to my hubby i m sure of it say the man s wife and she pull a letter from her husband out of her saddle pocket and give it to the tertium quid. 
it be an honest letter write by an honest man then stew in the plain on two hundred rupee a month. for he allow his wife eight hundred and fifty. and in a silk banian and cotton trouser. it say that perhaps she have not think of the unwisdom of allow her name to be so generally couple with the tertium quid s. that she be too much of a child to understand the danger of that sort of thing. that he her husband be the last man in the world to interfere jealously with her little amusement and interest but that it would be good be she to drop the tertium quid quietly and for her husband s sake. the letter be sweeten with many pretty little pet name and it amuse the tertium quid considerably. he and she laugh over it so that you fifty yard away could see their shoulder shake while the horse slouch along side by side. 
their conversation be not worth report. the upshot of it be that next day no one saw the man s wife and the tertium quid together. they have both go down to the cemetery which a a rule be only visit officially by the inhabitant of simla. 
a simla funeral with the clergyman rid the mourner rid and the coffin creak a it swing between the bearer be one of the most depress thing on this earth particularly when the procession pass under the wet dank dip beneath the rockcliffe hotel where the sun be shut out and all the hill stream be wail and weep together a they go down the valley. 
occasionally folk tend the graf but we in india shift and be transfer so often that at the end of the second year the dead have no friend only acquaintance who be far too busy amuse themselves up the hill to attend to old partner. the idea of use a cemetery a a rendezvous be distinctly a feminine one. a man would have say simply let people talk. we ll go down the mall. a woman be make differently especially if she be such a woman a the man s wife. she and the tertium quid enjoy each other s society among the graf of men and woman whom they have know and dance with aforetime. 
they use to take a big horse blanket and sit on the grass a little to the leave of the low end where there be a dip in the grind and where the occupy graf stop short and the ready make one be not ready. each well regulate indian cemetery keep half a dozen graf permanently open for contingency and incidental wear and tear. in the hill these be more usually baby s size because child who come up weaken and sick from the plain often succumb to the effect of the rain in the hill or get pneumonia from their ayah take them through damp pine wood after the sun ha set. in cantonment of course the man s size be more in request. these arrangement vary with the climate and population. 
one day when the man s wife and the tertium quid have just arrive in the cemetery they saw some cooly break grind. they have mark out a full size grave and the tertium quid ask them whether any sahib be sick. they say that they do not know. but it be an order that they should dig a sahib s grave. 
work away say the tertium quid and let s see how it s do. 
the cooly work away and the man s wife and the tertium quid watch and talk for a couple of hour while the grave be be deepen. then a coolie take the earth in basket a it be throw up jump over the grave. 
that s queer say the tertium quid. where s my ulster. 
what s queer. say the man s wife. 
i have get a chill down my back just a if a goose have walk over my grave. 
why do you look at the thing then. say the man s wife. let u go. 
the tertium quid stand at the head of the grave and star without answer for a space. then he say drop a pebble down it be nasty and cold. horribly cold. i don t think i shall come to the cemetery any more. i don t think grave dig be cheerful. 
the two talk and agree that the cemetery be depress. they also arrange for a ride next day out from the cemetery through the mashobra tunnel up to fagoo and back because all the world be go to a garden party at viceregal lodge and all the people of mashobra would go too. 
come up the cemetery road the tertium quid s horse try to bolt uphill be tire with stand so long and manage to strain a back sinew. 
i shall have to take the mare to morrow say the tertium quid and she will stand nothing heavy than a snaffle. 
they make their arrangement to meet in the cemetery after allow all the mashobra people time to pas into simla. that night it rain heavily and next day when the tertium quid come to the trysting place he saw that the new grave have a foot of water in it the grind be a tough and sour clay. 
jove. that look beastly say the tertium quid. fancy be board up and drop into that well. 
they then start off to fagoo the mare play with the snaffle and pick her way a though she be shoe with satin and the sun shin divinely. the road below mashobra to fagoo be officially style the himalayan thibet road. but in spite of it name it be not much more than six foot wide in most place and the drop into the valley below may be anything between one and two thousand foot. 
now we re go to thibet say the man s wife merrily a the horse draw near to fagoo. she be rid on the cliff side. 
into thibet say the tertium quid ever so far from people who say horrid thing and hubby who write stupid letter. with you to the end of the world. 
a coolie carry a log of wood come round a corner and the mare go wide to avoid him forefoot in and haunch out a a sensible mare should go. 
to the world s end say the man s wife and look unspeakable thing over her near shoulder at the tertium quid. 
he be smile but while she look the smile freeze stiff a it be on his face and change to a nervous grin the sort of grin men wear when they be not quite easy in their saddle. the mare seem to be sink by the stern and her nostril crack while she be try to realise what be happen. the rain of the night before have rot the drop side of the himalayan thibet road and it be give way under her. what be you do. say the man s wife. the tertium quid give no answer. he grin nervously and set his spur into the mare who rap with her forefoot on the road and the struggle begin. the man s wife scream oh frank get off. 
but the tertium quid be glue to the saddle his face blue and white and he look into the man s wife s eye. then the man s wife clutch at the mare s head and catch her by the nose instead of the bridle. the brute throw up her head and go down with a scream the tertium quid upon her and the nervous grin still set on his face. 
the man s wife hear the tinkle tinkle of little stone and loose earth fall off the roadway and the slide roar of the man and horse go down. then everything be quiet and she call on frank to leave his mare and walk up. but frank do not answer. he be underneath the mare nine hundred foot below spoil a patch of indian corn. 
a the reveller come back from viceregal lodge in the mist of the even they meet a temporarily insane woman on a temporarily mad horse swing round the corner with her eye and her mouth open and her head like the head of a medusa. she be stop by a man at the risk of his life and take out of the saddle a limp heap and put on the bank to explain herself. this waste twenty minute and then she be send home in a lady s rickshaw still with her mouth open and her hand pick at her rid glove. 
she be in bed through the follow three day which be rainy. so she miss attend the funeral of the tertium quid who be lower into eighteen inch of water instead of the twelve to which he have first object. 
a wayside comedy. 
because to every purpose there be time and judgment therefore the misery of man be great upon him. eccles. viii. 
fate and the government of india have turn the station of kashima into a prison. and because there be no help for the poor soul who be now lie there in torment i write this story pray that the government of india may be move to scatter the european population to the four wind. 
kashima be bound on all side by the rocktipped circle of the dosehri hill. in spring it be ablaze with rose. in summer the rose die and the hot wind blow from the hill. in autumn the white mist from the jhils cover the place a with water and in winter the frost nip everything young and tender to earth level. there be but one view in kashima a stretch of perfectly flat pasture and plough land run up to the gray blue scrub of the dosehri hill. 
there be no amusement except snipe and tiger shoot. but the tiger have be long since hunt from their lair in the rock cave and the snipe only come once a year. narkarra one hundred and forty three mile by road be the near station to kashima. but kashima never go to narkarra where there be at least twelve english people. it stay within the circle of the dosehri hill. 
all kashima acquit mr. vansuythen of any intention to do harm. but all kashima know that she and she alone bring about their pain. 
boulte the engineer mr. boulte and captain kurrell know this. they be the english population of kashima if we except major vansuythen who be of no importance whatever and mr. vansuythen who be the most important of all. 
you must remember though you will not understand that all law weaken in a small and hide community where there be no public opinion. when a man be absolutely alone in a station he run a certain risk of fall into evil way. this risk be multiply by every addition to the population up to twelve the jury number. after that fear and consequent restraint begin and human action become le grotesquely jerky. 
there be deep peace in kashima till mr. vansuythen arrive. she be a charm woman every one say so everywhere. and she charm every one. in spite of this or perhaps because of this since fate be so perverse she care only for one man and he be major vansuythen. have she be plain or stupid this matter would have be intelligible to kashima. but she be a fair woman with very still gray eye the colour of a lake just before the light of the sun touch it. no man who have see those eye could late on explain what fashion of woman she be to look upon. the eye dazzle him. her own sex say that she be not bad look but spoil by pretend to be so grave. and yet her gravity be natural. it be not her habit to smile. she merely go through life look at those who pass. and the woman object while the men fell down and worship. 
she know and be deeply sorry for the evil she ha do to kashima. but major vansuythen cannot understand why mr. boulte doe not drop in to afternoon tea at least three time a week. when there be only two woman in one station they ought to see a great deal of each other say major vansuythen. 
long and long before ever mr. vansuythen come out of those far away place where there be society and amusement kurrell have discover that mr. boulte be the one woman in the world for him and you dare not blame them. kashima be a out of the world a heaven or the other place and the dosehri hill keep their secret well. boulte have no concern in the matter. he be in camp for a fortnight at a time. he be a hard heavy man and neither mr. boulte nor kurrell pity him. they have all kashima and each other for their very very own. and kashima be the garden of eden in those day. when boulte return from his wandering he would slap kurrell between the shoulder and call him old fellow and the three would dine together. kashima be happy then when the judgment of god seem almost a distant a narkarra or the railway that run down to the sea. but the government send major vansuythen to kashima and with him come his wife. 
the etiquette of kashima be much the same a that of a desert island. when a strange be cast away there all hand go down to the shore to make him welcome. kashima assemble at the masonry platform close to the narkarra road and spread tea for the vansuythens. that ceremony be reckon a formal call and make them free of the station it right and privilege. when the vansuythens settle down they give a tiny house warm to all kashima. and that make kashima free of their house accord to the immemorial usage of the station. 
then the rain come when no one could go into camp and the narkarra road be wash away by the kasun river and in the cup like pasture of kashima the cattle wad knee deep. the cloud drop down from the dosehri hill and cover everything. 
at the end of the rain boulte s manner towards his wife change and become demonstratively affectionate. they have be marry twelve year and the change startle mr. boulte who hat her husband with the hate of a woman who ha meet with nothing but kindness from her mate and in the teeth of this kindness ha do him a great wrong. moreover she have her own trouble to fight with her watch to keep over her own property kurrell. for two month the rain have hide the dosehri hill and many other thing besides. but when they lift they show mr. boulte that her man among men her ted for she call him ted in the old day when boulte be out of earshot be slip the link of the allegiance. 
the vansuythen woman ha take him mr. boulte say to herself. and when boulte be away weep over her belief in the face of the over vehement blandishment of ted. sorrow in kashima be a fortunate a love because there be nothing to weaken it save the flight of time. mr. boulte have never breathe her suspicion to kurrell because she be not certain. and her nature lead her to be very certain before she take step in any direction. that be why she behave a she do. 
boulte come into the house one even and lean against the door post of the draw room chew his moustache. mr. boulte be put some flower into a vase. there be a pretence of civilisation even in kashima. 
little woman say boulte quietly do you care for me. 
immensely say she with a laugh. can you ask it. 
but i m serious say boulte. do you care for me. 
mr. boulte drop the flower and turn round quickly. do you want an honest answer. 
ye e i ve ask for it. 
mr. boulte speak in a low even voice for five minute very distinctly that there might be no misunderstand her mean. when samson break the pillar of gaza he do a little thing and one not to be compare to the deliberate pull down of a woman s homestead about her own ear. there be no wise female friend to advise mr. boulte the singularly cautious wife to hold her hand. she strike at boulte s heart because her own be sick with suspicion of kurrell and wear out with the long strain of watch alone through the rain. there be no plan or purpose in her speak. the sentence make themselves. and boulte listen lean against the door post with his hand in his pocket. when all be over and mr. boulte begin to breathe through her nose before break out into tear he laugh and star straight in front of him at the dosehri hill. 
be that all. he say. thank i only want to know you know. 
what be you go to do. say the woman between her sob. 
do. nothing. what should i do. kill kurrell or send you home or apply for leave to get a divorce. it s two day treck into narkarra. he laugh again and go on. i ll tell you what you can do. you can ask kurrell to dinner tomorrow no on thursday that will allow you time to pack and you can bolt with him. i give you my word i win t follow. 
he take up his helmet and go out of the room and mr. boulte sit till the moonlight streak the floor think and think and think. she have do her best upon the spur of the moment to pull the house down. but it would not fall. moreover she could not understand her husband and she be afraid. then the folly of her useless truthfulness strike her and she be ashamed to write to kurrell say i have go mad and tell everything. my husband say that i be free to elope with you. get a dek for thursday and we will fly after dinner. there be a cold bloodedness about that procedure which do not appeal to her. so she sit still in her own house and think. 
at dinner time boulte come back from his walk white and wear and haggard and the woman be touch at his distress. a the even wear on she mutter some expression of sorrow something approach to contrition. boulte come out of a brown study and say oh that. i wasn t think about that. by the way what doe kurrell say to the elopement. 
i haven t see him say mr. boulte. good god be that all. 
but boulte be not listen and her sentence end in a gulp. 
the next day bring no comfort to mr. boulte for kurrell do not appear and the new lift that she in the five minute madness of the previous even have hop to build out of the ruin of the old seem to be no near. 
boulte eat his breakfast advise her to see her arab pony feed in the verandah and go out. the morning wear through and at mid day the tension become unendurable. mr. boulte could not cry. she have finish her cry in the night and now she do not want to be leave alone. perhaps the vansuythen woman would talk to her. and since talk open the heart perhaps there might be some comfort to be find in her company. she be the only other woman in the station. 
in kashima there be no regular call hour. every one can drop in upon every one else at pleasure. mr. boulte put on a big terai hat and walk across to the vansuythens house to borrow last week s queen. the two compound touch and instead of go up the drive she cross through the gap in the cactus hedge enter the house from the back. a she pass through the din room she hear behind the purdah that cloak the draw room door her husband s voice say. 
but on my honour. on my soul and honour i tell you she doesn t care for me. she tell me so last night. i would have tell you then if vansuythen hadn t be with you. if it be for her sake that you ll have nothing to say to me you can make your mind easy. it s kurrell. 
what. say mr. vansuythen with a hysterical little laugh. kurrell. oh it can t be. you two must have make some horrible mistake. perhaps you you lose your temper or misunderstand or something. thing can t be a wrong a you say. 
mr. vansuythen have shift her defence to avoid the man s plead and be desperately try to keep him to a side issue. 
there must be some mistake she insist and it can be all put right again. 
boulte laugh grimly. 
it can t be captain kurrell. he tell me that he have never take the least the least interest in your wife mr. boulte. oh do listen. he say he have not. he swear he have not say mr. vansuythen. 
the purdah rustle and the speech be cut short by the entry of a little thin woman with big ring round her eye. mr. vansuythen stand up with a gasp. 
what be that you say. ask mr. boulte. never mind that man. what do ted say to you. what do he say to you. what do he say to you. 
mr. vansuythen sit down helplessly on the sofa overbear by the trouble of her questioner. 
he say i can t remember exactly what he say but i understand him to say that be but really mr. boulte isn t it rather a strange question. 
will you tell me what he say. repeat mr. boulte. even a tiger will fly before a bear rob of her whelp and mr. vansuythen be only an ordinarily good woman. she begin in a sort of desperation. well he say that the never care for you at all and of course there be not the least reason why he should have and and that be all. 
you say he swear he have not care for me. be that true. 
yes say mr. vansuythen very softly. 
mr. boulte waver for an instant where she stand and then fell forward faint. 
what do i tell you. say boulte a though the conversation have be unbroken. you can see for yourself. she care for him. the light begin to break into his dull mind and he go on and what be he say to you. 
but mr. vansuythen with no heart for explanation or impassioned protestation be kneel over mr. boulte. 
oh you brute. she cry. be all men like this. help me to get her into my room and her face be cut against the table. oh will you be quiet and help me to carry her. i hate you and i hate captain kurrell. lift her up carefully and now go. go away. 
boulte carry his wife into mr. vansuythen s bedroom and depart before the storm of that lady s wrath and disgust impenitent and burn with jealousy. kurrell have be make love to mr. vansuythen would do vansuythen a great a wrong a he have do boulte who catch himself consider whether mr. vansuythen would faint if she discover that the man she love have forswear her. 
in the middle of these meditation kurrell come canter along the road and pull up with a cheery good mornin. be mash mr. vansuythen a usual eh. bad thing for a sober marry man that. what will mr. boulte say. 
boulte raise his head and say slowly oh you liar. kurrell s face change. what s that. he ask quickly. 
nothing much say boulte. ha my wife tell you that you two be free to go off whenever you please. she ha be good enough to explain the situation to me. you ve be a true friend to me kurrell old man haven t you. 
kurrell groan and try to frame some sort of idiotic sentence about be will to give satisfaction. but his interest in the woman be dead have die out in the rain and mentally he be abuse her for her amaze indiscretion. it would have be so easy to have break off the thing gently and by degree and now he be saddle with boulte s voice recall him. 
i don t think i should get any satisfaction from kill you and i m pretty sure you d get none from kill me. 
then in a querulous tone ludicrously disproportioned to his wrong boulte add. 
seem rather a pity that you haven t the decency to keep to the woman now you ve get her. you ve be a true friend to her too haven t you. 
kurrell star long and gravely. the situation be get beyond him. 
what do you mean. he say. 
boulte answer more to himself than the questioner. my wife come over to mr. vansuythen s just now. and it seem you d be tell mr. vansuythen that you d never care for emma. i suppose you lie a usual. what have mr. vansuythen to do with you or you with her. try to speak the truth for once in a way. 
kurrell take the double insult without wince and reply by another question. go on. what happen. 
emma faint say boulte simply. but look here what have you be say to mr. vansuythen. 
kurrell laugh. mr. boulte have with unbridle tongue make havoc of his plan. and he could at least retaliate by hurt the man in whose eye he be humiliate and show dishonourable. 
say to her. what doe a man tell a lie like that for. i suppose i say pretty much what you ve say unless i m a good deal mistake. 
i speak the truth say boulte again more to himself than kurrell. emma tell me she hat me. she ha no right in me. 
no. i suppose not. you re only her husband y know. and what do mr. vansuythen say after you have lay your disengage heart at her foot. 
kurrell felt almost virtuous a he put the question. 
i don t think that matter boulte reply. and it doesn t concern you. 
but it doe. i tell you it doe begin kurrell shamelessly. 
the sentence be cut by a roar of laughter from boulte s lip. kurrell be silent for an instant and then he too laugh laugh long and loudly rock in his saddle. it be an unpleasant sound the mirthless mirth of these men on the long white line of the narkarra road. there be no stranger in kashima or they might have think that captivity within the dosehri hill have drive half the european population mad. the laughter end abruptly and kurrell be the first to speak. 
well what be you go to do. 
boulte look up the road and at the hill. nothing say he quietly. what s the use. it s too ghastly for anything. we must let the old life go on. i can only call you a hound and a liar and i can t go on call you name for ever. besides which i don t feel that i m much good. we can t get out of this place. what be there to do. 
kurrell look round the rat pit of kashima and make no reply. the injure husband take up the wondrous tale. 
ride on and speak to emma if you want to. god know i don t care what you do. 
he walk forward and leave kurrell gaze blankly after him. kurrell do not ride on either to see mr. boulte or mr. vansuythen. he sit in his saddle and think while his pony graze by the roadside. 
the whir of approach wheel rouse him. mr. vansuythen be drive home mr. boulte white and wan with a cut on her forehead. 
stop please say mr. boulte i want to speak to ted. 
mr. vansuythen obey but a mr. boulte lean forward put her hand upon the splashboard of the dog cart kurrell speak. 
i ve see your husband mr. boulte. 
there be no necessity for any further explanation. the man s eye be fix not upon mr. boulte but her companion. mr. boulte saw the look. 
speak to him. she plead turn to the woman at her side. oh speak to him. tell him what you tell me just now. tell him you hate him. tell him you hate him. 
she bend forward and weep bitterly while the sais impassive go forward to hold the horse. mr. vansuythen turn scarlet and drop the rein. she wish to be no party to such unholy explanation. 
i ve nothing to do with it she begin coldly. but mr. boulte s sob overcome her and she address herself to the man. i don t know what i be to say captain kurrell. i don t know what i can call you. i think you ve you ve behave abominably and she ha cut her forehead terribly against the table. 
it doesn t hurt. it isn t anything say mr. boulte feebly. that doesn t matter. tell him what you tell me. say you don t care for him. oh ted win t you believe her. 
mr. boulte ha make me understand that you be that you be fond of her once upon a time go on mr. vansuythen. 
well. say kurrell brutally. it seem to me that mr. boulte have good be fond of her own husband first. 
stop. say mr. vansuythen. hear me first. i don t care i don t want to know anything about you and mr. boulte. but i want you to know that i hate you that i think you be a cur and that i ll never never speak to you again. oh i don t dare to say what i think of you you man. 
i want to speak to ted moan mr. boulte but the dog cart rattle on and kurrell be leave on the road sham and boil with wrath against mr. boulte. 
he wait till mr. vansuythen be drive back to her own house and she be free from the embarrassment of mr. boulte s presence learn for the second time her opinion of himself and his action. 
in the evening it be the wont of all kashima to meet at the platform on the narkarra road to drink tea and discus the triviality of the day. major vansuythen and his wife find themselves alone at the gather place for almost the first time in their remembrance. and the cheery major in the teeth of his wife s remarkably reasonable suggestion that the rest of the station might be sick insist upon drive round to the two bungalow and unearth the population. 
sit in the twilight. say he with great indignation to the boultes. that ll never do. hang it all we re one family here. you must come out and so must kurrell. i ll make him bring his banjo. 
so great be the power of honest simplicity and a good digestion over guilty conscience that all kashima do turn out even down to the banjo. and the major embrace the company in one expansive grin. a he grin mr. vansuythen raise her eye for an instant and look at all kashima. her mean be clear. major vansuythen would never know anything. he be to be the outsider in that happy family whose cage be the dosehri hill. 
you re sing villainously out of tune kurrell say the major truthfully. pas me that banjo. 
and he sing in excruciate wise till the star come out and all kashima go to dinner. 
that be the begin of the new life of kashima the life that mr. boulte make when her tongue be loosen in the twilight. 
mr. vansuythen ha never tell the major. and since he insist upon keep up a burdensome geniality she ha be compel to break her vow of not speak to kurrell. this speech which must of necessity preserve the semblance of politeness and interest serf admirably to keep alight the flame of jealousy and dull hatred in boulte s bosom a it awaken the same passion in his wife s heart. mr. boulte hate mr. vansuythen because she ha take ted from her and in some curious fashion hate her because mr. vansuythen and here the wife s eye see far more clearly than the husband s detest ted. and ted that gallant captain and honourable man know now that it be possible to hate a woman once love to the verge of wish to silence her for ever with blow. above all be he shock that mr. boulte cannot see the error of her way. 
boulte and he go out tiger shoot together in all friendship. boulte ha put their relationship on a most satisfactory foot. 
you re a blackguard he say to kurrell and i ve lose any self respect i may ever have have. but when you re with me i can feel certain that you be not with mr. vansuythen or make emma miserable. 
kurrell endure anything that boulte may say to him. sometimes they be away for three day together and then the major insist upon his wife go over to sit with mr. boulte. although mr. vansuythen ha repeatedly declare that she prefer her husband s company to any in the world. from the way in which she cling to him she would certainly seem to be speak the truth. 
but of course a the major say in a little station we must all be friendly. 
the hill of illusion. 
what render vain their deep desire. a god a god their severance rule and bid between their shore to be the unplumbed salt estrange sea. matthew arnold. 
he. tell your jhampanies not to hurry so dear. they forget i m fresh from the plain. 
she. sure proof that i have not be go out with any one. yes they be an untrained crew. where do we go. 
he. a usual to the world s end. no jakko. 
she. have your pony lead after you then. it s a long round. 
he. and for the last time thank heaven. 
she. do you mean that still. i didn t dare to write to you about it all these month. 
he. mean it. i ve be shape my affair to that end since autumn. what make you speak a though it have occur to you for the first time. 
she. i. oh. i don t know. i ve have long enough to think too. 
he. and you ve change your mind. 
she. no. you ought to know that i be a miracle of constancy. what be your arrangement. 
he. ours sweetheart please. 
she. ours be it then. my poor boy how the prickly heat ha mark your forehead. have you ever try sulphate of copper in water. 
he. it ll go away in a day or two up here. the arrangement be simple enough. tonga in the early morning reach kalka at twelve umballa at seven down straight by night train to bombay and then the steamer of the st for rome. that s my idea. the continent and sweden a ten week honeymoon. 
she. ssh. don t talk of it in that way. it make me afraid. guy how long have we two be insane. 
he. seven month and fourteen day i forget the odd hour exactly but i ll think. 
she. i only want to see if you remember. who be those two on the blessington road. 
he. eabrey and the penner woman. what do they matter to u. tell me everything that you ve be do and say and think. 
she. do little say le and think a great deal. i ve hardly be out at all. 
he. that be wrong of you. you haven t be mop. 
she. not very much. can you wonder that i m disincline for amusement. 
he. frankly i do. where be the difficulty. 
she. in this only. the more people i know and the more i m know here the wide spread will be the news of the crash when it come. i don t like that. 
he. nonsense. we shall be out of it. 
she. you think so. 
he. i m sure of it if there be any power in steam or horse flesh to carry u away. ha. ha. 
she. and the fun of the situation come in where my lancelot. 
he. nowhere guinevere. i be only think of something. 
she. they say men have a keen sense of humour than woman. now i be think of the scandal. 
he. don t think of anything so ugly. we shall be beyond it. 
she. it will be there all the same in the mouth of simla telegraph over india and talk of at the dinner and when he go out they will stare at him to see how he take it. and we shall be dead guy dear dead and cast into the out darkness where there be. 
he. love at least. isn t that enough. 
she. i have say so. 
he. and you think so still. 
she. what do you think. 
he. what have i do. it mean equal ruin to me a the world reckon it outcasting the loss of my appointment the break off my life s work. i pay my price. 
she. and be you so much above the world that you can afford to pay it. be i. 
he. my divinity what else. 
she. a very ordinary woman i m afraid but so far respectable. how d you do mr. middle ditch. your husband. i think he s rid down to annandale with colonel statters. yes isn t it divine after the rain. guy how long be i to be allow to bow to mr. middleditch. till the th. 
he. frowsy scotchwoman. what be the use of bring her into the discussion. you be say. 
she. nothing. have you ever see a man hang. 
he. yes. once. 
she. what be it for. 
he. murder of course. 
she. murder. be that so great a sin after all. i wonder how he felt before the drop fell. 
he. i don t think he felt much. what a gruesome little woman it be this even. you re shiver. put on your cape dear. 
she. i think i will. oh. look at the mist come over sanjaoli. and i think we should have sunshine on the lady mile. let s turn back. 
he. what s the good. there s a cloud on elysium hill and that mean it s foggy all down the mall. we ll go on. it ll blow away before we get to the convent perhaps. jove. it be chilly. 
she. you feel it fresh from below. put on your ulster. what do you think of my cape. 
he. never ask a man his opinion of a woman s dress when he be desperately and abjectly in love with the wearer. let me look. like everything else of yours it s perfect. where do you get it from. 
she. he give it me on wednesday our wed day you know. 
he. the deuce he do. he s grow generous in his old age. d you like all that frilly bunchy stuff at the throat. i don t. 
she. don t you. 
kind sir o your courtesy a you go by the town sir pray you o your love for me buy me a russet gown sir. 
he. i win t say. keek into the draw well janet janet. only wait a little darling and you shall be stock with russet gown and everything else. 
she. and when the frock wear out you ll get me new one and everything else. 
he. assuredly. 
she. i wonder. 
he. look here sweetheart i didn t spend two day and two night in the train to hear you wonder. i think we d settle all that at shaifazehat. 
she. dreamily. at shaifazehat. doe the station go on still. that be age and age ago. it must be crumble to piece. all except the amirtollah kutcha road. i don t believe that could crumble till the day of judgment. 
he. you think so. what be the mood now. 
she. i can t tell. how cold it be. let u get on quickly. 
he. good walk a little. stop your jhampanies and get out. what s the matter with you this even dear. 
she. nothing. you must grow accustom to my way. if i m bore you i can go home. here s captain congleton come i daresay he ll be will to escort me. 
he. goose. between u too. damn captain congleton. 
she. chivalrous knight. be it your habit to swear much in talk. it jar a little and you might swear at me. 
he. my angel. i didn t know what i be say. and you change so quickly that i couldn t follow. i ll apologise in dust and ash. 
she. there ll be enough of those late on good night captain congleton. go to the sing quadrille already. what dance be i give you next week. no. you must have write them down wrong. five and seven i say. if you ve make a mistake i certainly don t intend to suffer for it. you must alter your programme. 
he. i think you tell me that you have not be go out much this season. 
she. quite true but when i do i dance with captain congleton. he dance very nicely. 
he. and sit out with him i suppose. 
she. yes. have you any objection. shall i stand under the chandelier in future. 
he. what doe he talk to you about. 
she. what do men talk about when they sit out. 
he. ugh. don t. well now i m up you must dispense with the fascinate congleton for a while. i don t like him. 
she. after a pause. do you know what you have say. 
he can t say that i do exactly. i m not in the best of temper. 
she so i see and feel. my true and faithful lover where be your eternal constancy unalterable trust and reverent devotion. i remember those phrase. you seem to have forget them. i mention a man s name. 
he. a good deal more than that. 
she. well speak to him about a dance perhaps the last dance that i shall ever dance in my life before i before i go away. and you at once distrust and insult me. 
he. i never say a word. 
she. how much do you imply. guy be this amount of confidence to be our stock to start the new life on. 
he. no of course not. i didn t mean that. on my word and honour i didn t. let it pas dear. please let it pas. 
she. this once yes and a second time and again and again all through the year when i shall be unable to resent it. you want too much my lancelot and you know too much. 
he. how do you mean. 
she. that be a part of the punishment. there cannot be perfect trust between u. 
he. in heaven s name why not. 
she. hush. the other place be quite enough. ask yourself. 
he. i don t follow. 
she. you trust me so implicitly that when i look at another man never mind. guy have you ever make love to a girl a good girl. 
he. something of the sort. century ago in the dark age before i ever meet you dear. 
she. tell me what you say to her. 
he. what doe a man say to a girl. i ve forget. 
she. i remember. he tell her that he trust her and worship the grind she walk on and that he ll love and honour and protect her till her die day. and so she marry in that belief. at least i speak of one girl who be not protect. 
he. well and then. 
she. and then guy and then that girl need ten time the love and trust and honour yes honour that be enough when she be only a mere wife if if the other life she choose to lead be to be make even bearable. do you understand. 
he. even bearable. it ll be paradise. 
she. ah. can you give me all i ve ask for not now nor a few month late but when you begin to think of what you might have do if you have keep your own appointment and your caste here when you begin to look upon me a a drag and a burden. i shall want it most then guy for there will be no one in the wide world but you. 
he. you re a little over tire to night sweetheart and you re take a stage view of the situation. after the necessary business in the court the road be clear to. 
she. the holy state of matrimony. ha. ha. ha. 
he. ssh. don t laugh in that horrible way. 
she. i i c c c can t help it. isn t it too absurd. ah. ha. ha. ha. guy stop me quick or i shall l l laugh till we get to the church. 
he. for goodness sake stop. don t make an exhibition of yourself. what be the matter with you. 
she. n nothing. i m good now. 
he. that s all right. one moment dear. there s a little wisp of hair get loose from behind your right ear and it s straggle over your cheek. so. 
she. thank oo. i m fraid my hat s on one side too. 
he. what do you wear these huge dagger bonnet skewer for. they re big enough to kill a man with. 
she. oh. don t kill me though. you re stick it into my head. let me do it. you men be so clumsy. 
he. have you have many opportunity of compare u in this sort of work. 
she. guy what be my name. 
he. eh. i don t follow. 
she. here s my card case. can you read. 
he. yes. well. 
she. well that answer your question. you know the other s man s name. be i sufficiently humble or would you like to ask me if there be any one else. 
he. i see now. my darling i never mean that for an instant. i be only joke. there. lucky there s no one on the road. they d be scandalise. 
she. they ll be more scandalise before the end. 
he. do on t. i don t like you to talk in that way. 
she. unreasonable man. who ask me to face the situation and accept it. tell me do i look like mr. penner. do i look like a naughty woman. swear i don t. give me your word of honour my honourable friend that i m not like mr. buzgago. that s the way she stand with her hand clasp at the back of her head. d you like that. 
he. don t be affect. 
she. i m not. i m mr. buzgago. listen. 
pendant une anne toute entiere le regiment n a pa r paru. au ministere de la guerre on le r porta comme perdu. on se r noncait retrouver sa trace quand un matin subitement on le vit reparaetre sur la place l colonel toujours en avant. 
that s the way she roll her r s. be i like her. 
he. no but i object when you go on like an actress and sing stuff of that kind. where in the world do you pick up the chanson du colonel. it isn t a draw room song. it isn t proper. 
she. mr. buzgago teach it me. she be both draw room and proper and in another month she ll shut her draw room to me and thank god she isn t a improper a i be. oh guy guy. i wish i be like some woman and have no scruple about what be it keene say. wear a corpse s hair and be false to the bread they eat. 
he. i be only a man of limit intelligence and just now very bewilder. when you have quite finish flash through all your mood tell me and i ll try to understand the last one. 
she. mood guy. i haven t any. i m sixteen year old and you re just twenty and you ve be wait for two hour outside the school in the cold. and now i ve meet you and now we re walk home together. doe that suit you my imperial majesty. 
he. no. we aren t child. why can t you be rational. 
she. he ask me that when i m go to commit suicide for his sake and and i don t want to be french and rave about my mother but have i ever tell you that i have a mother and a brother who be my pet before i marry. he s marry now. can t you imagine the pleasure that the news of the elopement will give him. have you any people at home guy to be please with your performance. 
he. one or two. one can t make omelet without break egg. 
she. slowly. i don t see the necessity. 
he. hah. what do you mean. 
she. shall i speak the truth. 
he under the circumstance perhaps it would be a well. 
she. guy i m afraid. 
he i think we d settle all that. what of. 
she. of you. 
he. oh damn it all. the old business. this be too bad. 
she. of you. 
he. and what now. 
she. what do you think of me. 
he. beside the question altogether. what do you intend to do. 
she. i daren t risk it. i m afraid. if i could only cheat. 
he. a la buzgago. no thank. that s the one point on which i have any notion of honour. i win t eat his salt and steal too. i ll loot openly or not at all. 
she. i never mean anything else. 
he. then why in the world do you pretend not to be will to come. 
she. it s not pretence guy. i be afraid. 
he. please explain. 
she. it can t last guy. it can t last. you ll get angry and then you ll swear and then you ll get jealous and then you ll mistrust me you do now and you yourself will be the best reason for doubt. and i what shall i do. i shall be no good than mr. buzgago find out no good than any one. and you ll know that. oh guy can t you see. 
he i see that you be desperately unreasonable little woman. 
she. there. the moment i begin to object you get angry. what will you do when i be only your property steal property. it can t be guy. it can t be. i think it could but it can t. you ll get tire of me. 
he i tell you i shall not. win t anything make you understand that. 
she. there can t you see. if you speak to me like that now you ll call me horrible name late if i don t do everything a you like. and if you be cruel to me guy where should i go. where should i go. i can t trust you. oh. i can t trust you. 
he. i suppose i ought to say that i can trust you. i ve ample reason. 
she. please don t dear. it hurt a much a if you hit me. 
he. it isn t exactly pleasant for me. 
she. i can t help it. i wish i be dead. i can t trust you and i don t trust myself. oh guy let it die away and be forget. 
he. too late now. i don t understand you i win t and i can t trust myself to talk this even. may i call to morrow. 
she. yes. no. oh give me time. the day after. i get into my rickshaw here and meet him at peliti s. you ride. 
he. i ll go on to peliti s too. i think i want a drink. my world s knock about my ear and the star be fall. who be those brute howl in the old library. 
she. they re rehearse the sing quadrille for the fancy ball. can t you hear mr. buzgago s voice. she ha a solo. it s quite a new idea. listen. 
mr. buzgago. in the old library con molt. exp. 
see saw. margery daw. 
sell her bed to lie upon straw. 
wasn t she a silly slut. 
to sell her bed and lie upon dirt. 
captain congleton i m go to alter that to flirt. it sound good. 
he. no i ve change my mind about the drink. good night little lady. i shall see you to morrow. 
she. ye e. good night guy. don t be angry with me. 
he. angry. you know i trust you absolutely. good night and god bless you. 
three second late. alone. hmm. i d give something to discover whether there s another man at the back of all this. 
a second rate woman. 
est fuga volvitur rota on we drift. where loom the dim port. one two three four five contribute their quota. something be gain if one catch but the import show it u hugues of saxe gotha. master hugues of saxe gotha. 
dress. don t tell me that woman ever dress in her life. she stand in the middle of the room while her ayah no her husband it must have be a man throw her clothe at her. she then do her hair with her finger and rub her bonnet in the flue under the bed. i know she do a well a if i have assist at the orgy. who be she. say mr. hauksbee. 
don t. say mr. mallowe feebly. you make my head ache. i be miserable to day. stay me with fondant comfort me with chocolate for i be. do you bring anything from peliti s. 
question to begin with. you shall have the sweet when you have answer them. who and what be the creature. there be at least half a dozen men round her and she appear to be go to sleep in their midst. 
delville say mr. mallowe shady delville to distinguish her from mr. jim of that ilk. she dance a untidily a she dress i believe and her husband be somewhere in madras. go and call if you be so interest. 
what have i to do with shigramitish woman. she merely catch my attention for a minute and i wonder at the attraction that a dowd ha for a certain type of man. i expect to see her walk out of her clothe until i look at her eye. 
hook and eye surely drawl mr. mallowe. 
don t be clever polly. you make my head ache. and round this hayrick stand a crowd of men a positive crowd. 
perhaps they also expect. 
polly don t be rabelaisian. 
mr. mallowe curl herself up comfortably on the sofa and turn her attention to the sweet. she and mr. hauksbee share the same house at simla. and these thing befall two season after the matter of otis yeere which ha be already record. 
mr. hauksbee step into the verandah and look down upon the mall her forehead pucker with think. 
hah. say mr. hauksbee shortly. indeed. 
what be it. say mr. mallowe sleepily. 
that dowd and the dance master to whom i object. 
why to the dance master. he be a middle age gentleman of reprobate and romantic tendency and try to be a friend of mine. 
then make up your mind to lose him. dowds cling by nature and i should imagine that this animal how terrible her bonnet look from above. be specially clingsome. 
she be welcome to the dance master so far a i be concern. i never could take an interest in a monotonous liar. the frustrate aim of his life be to persuade people that he be a bachelor. 
o oh. i think i ve meet that sort of man before. and isn t he. 
no. he confide that to me a few day ago. ugh. some men ought to be kill. 
what happen then. 
he pose a the horror of horror a misunderstand man. heaven know the femme incomprise be sad enough and bad enough but the other thing. 
and so fat too. i should have laugh in his face. men seldom confide in me. how be it they come to you. 
for the sake of impress me with their career in the past. protect me from men with confidence. 
and yet you encourage them. 
what can i do. they talk i listen and they vow that i be sympathetic. i know i always profess astonishment even when the plot be of the most old possible. 
yes. men be so unblushingly explicit if they be once allow to talk whereas woman s confidence be full of reservation and fib except. 
when they go mad and babble of the unutter ability after a week s acquaintance. really if you come to consider we know a great deal more of men than of our own sex. 
and the extraordinary thing be that men will never believe it. they say we be try to hide something. 
they be generally do that on their own account. ala. these chocolate pall upon me and i haven t eat more than a dozen. i think i shall go to sleep. 
then you ll get fat dear. if you take more exercise and a more intelligent interest in your neighbour you would. 
be a much love a mr. hauksbee. you re a darling in many way and i like you you be not a woman s woman but why do you trouble yourself about mere human being. 
because in the absence of angel who i be sure would be horribly dull men and woman be the most fascinate thing in the whole wide world lazy one. i be interest in the dowd i be interest in the dance master i be interest in the hawley boy and i be interest in you. 
why couple me with the hawley boy. he be your property. 
yes and in his own guileless speech i m make a good thing out of him. when he be slightly more reform and ha pass his high standard or whatever the authority think fit to exact from him i shall select a pretty little girl the holt girl i think and here she wave her hand airily whom mr. hauksbee hath join together let no man put asunder. that s all. 
and when you have yoke may holt with the most notorious detrimental in simla and earn the undying hatred of mamma holt what will you do with me dispenser of the destiny of the universe. 
mr. hauksbee drop into a low chair in front of the fire and chin in hand gaze long and steadfastly at mr. mallowe. 
i do not know she say shake her head what i shall do with you dear. it s obviously impossible to marry you to some one else your husband would object and the experiment might not be successful after all. i think i shall begin by prevent you from what be it. sleep on ale house bench and snore in the sun. 
don t. i don t like your quotation. they be so rude. go to the library and bring me new book. 
while you sleep. no. if you don t come with me i shall spread your new frock on my rickshaw bow and when any one ask me what i be do i shall say that i be go to phelps s to get it let out. i shall take care that mr. macnamara see me. put your thing on there s a good girl. 
mr. mallowe groan and obey and the two go off to the library where they find mr. delville and the man who go by the nick name of the dance master. by that time mr. mallowe be awake and eloquent. 
that be the creature. say mr. hauksbee with the air of one point out a slug in the road. 
no say mr. mallowe. the man be the creature. ugh. good even mr. bend. i think you be come to tea this even. 
surely it be for to morrow be it not. answer the dance master. i understand i fancy i m so sorry how very unfortunate. 
but mr. mallowe have pass on. 
for the practise equivocator you say he be murmur mr. hauksbee he strike me a a failure. now wherefore should he have prefer a walk with the dowd to tea with u. elective affinity i suppose both grubby. polly i d never forgive that woman a long a the world roll. 
i forgive every woman everything say mr. mallowe. he will be a sufficient punishment for her. what a common voice she ha. 
mr. delville s voice be not pretty her carriage be even le lovely and her raiment be strikingly neglect. all these thing mr. mallowe notice over the top of a magazine. 
now what be there in her. say mr. hauksbee. do you see what i mean about the clothe fall off. if i be a man i would perish sooner than be see with that rag bag. and yet she ha good eye but oh. 
what be it. 
she doesn t know how to use them. on my honour she doe not. look. oh look. untidiness i can endure but ignorance never. the woman s a fool. 
hsh. she ll hear you. 
all the woman in simla be fool. she ll think i mean some one else. now she s go out. what a thoroughly objectionable couple she and the dance master make. which remind me. do you suppose they ll ever dance together. 
wait and see. i don t envy her the conversation of the dance master loathly man. his wife ought to be up here before long. 
do you know anything about him. 
only what he tell me. it may be all a fiction. he marry a girl breed in the country i think and be an honourable chivalrous soul tell me that he repent his bargain and send her to her a often a possible a person who ha live in the doon since the memory of man and go to mussoorie when other people go home. the wife be with her at present. so he say. 
baby. 
one only but he talk of his wife in a revolt way. i hat him for it. he think he be be epigrammatic and brilliant. 
that be a vice peculiar to men. i dislike him because he be generally in the wake of some girl disappoint the eligibles. he will persecute may holt no more unless i be much mistake. 
no. i think mr. delville may occupy his attention for a while. 
do you suppose she know that he be the head of a family. 
not from his lip. he swear me to eternal secrecy. wherefore i tell you. don t you know that type of man. 
not intimately thank goodness. a a general rule when a man begin to abuse his wife to me i find that the lord give me wherewith to answer him accord to his folly. and we part with a coolness between u. i laugh. 
i m different. i ve no sense of humour. 
cultivate it then. it ha be my mainstay for more year than i care to think about. a well educate sense of humour will save a woman when religion train and home influence fail. and we may all need salvation sometimes. 
do you suppose that the delville woman ha humour. 
her dress betray her. how can a thing who wear her supplement under her leave arm have any notion of the fitness of thing much le their folly. if she discard the dance master after have once see him dance i may respect her. otherwise. 
but be we not both assume a great deal too much dear. you saw the woman at peliti s half an hour late you saw her walk with the dance master an hour late you meet her here at the library. 
still with the dance master remember. 
still with the dance master i admit but why on the strength of that should you imagine. 
i imagine nothing. i have no imagination. i be only convince that the dance master be attract to the dowd because he be objectionable in every way and she in every other. if i know the man a you have describe him he hold his wife in slavery at present. 
she be twenty year young than he. 
poor wretch. and in the end after he ha pose and swagger and lie he ha a mouth under that rag moustache simply make for lie he will be reward accord to his merit. 
i wonder what those really be say mr. mallowe. 
but mr. hauksbee her face close to the shelf of the new book be hum softly. what shall he have who kill the deer. she be a lady of unfettered speech. 
one month late she announce her intention of call upon mr. delville. both mr. hauksbee and mr. mallowe be in morning wrapper and there be a great peace in the land. 
i should go a i be say mr. mallowe. it would be a delicate compliment to her style. 
mr. hauksbee study herself in the glass. 
assume for a moment that she ever darken these door i should put on this robe after all the others to show her what a morning wrapper ought to be. it might enliven her. a it be i shall go in the dive colour sweet emblem of youth and innocence and shall put on my new glove. 
if you really be go dirty tan would be too good. and you know that dive colour spot with the rain. 
i care not. i may make her envious. at least i shall try though one cannot expect very much from a woman who put a lace tucker into her habit. 
just heaven. when do she do that. 
yesterday rid with the dance master. i meet them at the back of jakko and the rain have make the lace lie down. to complete the effect she be wear an unclean terai with the elastic under her chin. i felt almost too well content to take the trouble to despise her. 
the hawley boy be rid with you. what do he think. 
doe a boy ever notice these thing. should i like him if he do. he star in the rude way and just when i think he have see the elastic he say there s something very take about that face. i rebuke him on the spot. i don t approve of boy be take by face. 
other than your own. i shouldn t be in the least surprise if the hawley boy immediately go to call. 
i forbid him. let her be satisfy with the dance master and his wife when she come up. i m rather curious to see mr. bend and the delville woman together. 
mr. hauksbee depart and at the end of an hour return slightly flush. 
there be no limit to the treachery of youth. i order the hawley boy a he value my patronage not to call. the first person i stumble over literally stumble over in her poky dark little draw room be of course the hawley boy. she keep u wait ten minute and then emerge a though she have be tip out of the dirtyclothes basket. you know my way dear when i be at all put out. i be superior crrrrushingly superior. lift my eye to heaven and have hear of nothing drop my eye on the carpet and really didn t know play with my cardcase and suppose so. the hawley boy giggle like a girl and i have to freeze him with scowl between the sentence. 
and she. 
she sit in a heap on the edge of a couch and manage to convey the impression that she be suffer from stomach ache at the very least. it be all i could do not to ask after her symptom. when i rise she grunt just like a buffalo in the water too lazy to move. 
be you certain. 
be i blind polly. laziness sheer laziness nothing else or her garment be only construct for sit down in. i stay for a quarter of an hour try to penetrate the gloom to guess what her surround be like while she stick out her tongue. 
lu cy. 
well i ll withdraw the tongue though i m sure if she didn t do it when i be in the room she do the minute i be outside. at any rate she lay in a lump and grunt. ask the hawley boy dear. i believe the grunt be mean for sentence but she speak so indistinctly that i can t swear to it. 
you be incorrigible simply. 
i be not. treat me civilly give me peace with honour don t put the only available seat face the window and a child may eat jam in my lap before church. but i resent be grunt at. wouldn t you. do you suppose that she communicate her view on life and love to the dance master in a set of modulate grmphs. 
you attach too much importance to the dance master. 
he come a we go and the dowd grow almost cordial at the sight of him. he smile greasily and move about that darken dog kennel in a suspiciously familiar way. 
don t be uncharitable. any sin but that i ll forgive. 
listen to the voice of history. i be only describe what i saw. he enter the heap on the sofa revive slightly and the hawley boy and i come away together. he be disillusion but i felt it my duty to lecture him severely for go there. and that s all. 
now for pity s sake leave the wretched creature and the dance master alone. they never do you any harm. 
no harm. to dress a an example and a stumble block for half simla and then to find this person who be dress by the hand of god not that i wish to disparage him for a moment but you know the tikka dhurzie way he attire those lily of the field this person draw the eye of men and some of them nice men. it s almost enough to make one discard clothe. i tell the hawley boy so. 
and what do that sweet youth do. 
turn shell pink and look across the far blue hill like a distress cherub. be i talk wildly polly. let me say my say and i shall be calm. otherwise i may go abroad and disturb simla with a few original reflection. except always your own sweet self there isn t a single woman in the land who understand me when i be what s the word. 
tete fele suggest mr. mallowe. 
exactly. and now let u have tiffin. the demand of society be exhaust and a mr. delville say here mr. hauksbee to the horror of the khitmatgars lapse into a series of grunt while mr. mallowe star in lazy surprise. 
god gie u a guid conceit of oorselves say mr. hauksbee piously return to her natural speech. now in any other woman that would have be vulgar. i be consume with curiosity to see mr. bend. i expect complication. 
woman of one idea say mr. mallowe shortly. all complication be a old a the hill. i have live through or near all all all. 
and yet do not understand that men and woman never behave twice alike. i be old who be young if ever i put my head in your lap you dear big sceptic you will learn that my part be gauze but never no never have i lose my interest in men and woman. polly i shall see this business out to the bitter end. 
i be go to sleep say mr. mallowe calmly. i never interfere with men or woman unless i be compel and she retire with dignity to her own room. 
mr. hauksbee s curiosity be not long leave ungratified for mr. bend come up to simla a few day after the conversation faithfully report above and pervade the mall by her husband s side. 
behold. say mr. hauksbee thoughtfully rub her nose. that be the last link of the chain if we omit the husband of the delville whoever he may be. let me consider. the bent and the delvilles inhabit the same hotel. and the delville be detest by the waddy do you know the waddy. who be almost a big a dowd. the waddy also abominate the male bend for which if her other sin do not weigh too heavily she will eventually go to heaven. 
don t be irreverent say mr. mallowe i like mr. bend s face. 
i be discuss the waddy return mr. hauksbee loftily. the waddy will take the female bend apart after have borrow yes. everything that she can from hairpin to baby bottle. such my dear be life in a hotel. the waddy will tell the female bend fact and fiction about the dance master and the dowd. 
lucy i should like you good if you be not always look into people s back bedroom. 
anybody can look into their front drawingrooms. and remember whatever i do and whatever i look i never talk a the waddy will. let u hope that the dance master s greasy smile and manner of the pedagogue will soften the heart of that cow his wife. if mouth speak truth i should think that little mr. bend could get very angry on occasion. 
but what reason ha she for be angry. 
what reason. the dance master in himself be a reason. how doe it go. if in his life some trivial error fall look in his face and you ll believe them all. i be prepare to credit any evil of the dance master because i hate him so. and the dowd be so disgustingly badly dress. 
that she too be capable of every iniquity. i always prefer to believe the best of everybody. it save so much trouble. 
very good. i prefer to believe the bad. it save useless expenditure of sympathy. and you may be quite certain that the waddy belief with me. 
mr. mallowe sigh and make no answer. 
the conversation be holden after dinner while mr. hauksbee be dress for a dance. 
i be too tire to go plead mr. mallowe and mr. hauksbee leave her in peace till two in the morning when she be aware of emphatic knock at her door. 
don t be very angry dear say mr. hauksbee. my idiot of an ayah ha go home and a i hope to sleep to night there isn t a soul in the place to unlace me. 
oh this be too bad. say mr. mallowe sulkily. 
cant help it. i m a lone lorn grass widow dear but i will not sleep in my stay. and such news too. oh do unlace me there s a darling. the dowd the dance master i and the hawley boy you know the north verandah. 
how can i do anything if you spin round like this. protest mr. mallowe fumble with the knot of the lace. 
oh i forget. i must tell my tale without the aid of your eye. do you know you ve lovely eye dear. well to begin with i take the hawley boy to a kala juggah. 
do he want much take. 
lot. there be an arrangement of loose box in kanats and she be in the next one talk to him. 
which. how. explain. 
you know what i mean the dowd and the dance master. we could hear every word and we listen shamelessly specially the hawley boy. polly i quite love that woman. 
this be interest. there. now turn round. what happen. 
one moment. ah h. bless relief. i ve be look forward to take them off for the last half hour which be ominous at my time of life. but a i be say we listen and hear the dowd drawl bad than ever. she drop her final g s like a barmaid or a blue blood aide de camp. look he ere you re gettin too fond o me she say and the dance master own it be so in language that nearly make me ill. the dowd reflect for a while. then we hear her say look he ere mister bend why be you such an aw ful liar. i nearly explode while the dance master deny the charge. it seem that he never tell her he be a marry man. 
i say he wouldn t. 
and she have take this to heart on personal ground i suppose. she drawl along for five minute reproach him with his perfidy and grow quite motherly. now you ve get a nice little wife of your own you have she say. she s ten time too good for a fat old man like you and look he ere you never tell me a word about her and i ve be thinkin about it a good deal and i think you re a liar. wasn t that delicious. the dance master maunder and rave till the hawley boy suggest that he should burst in and beat him. his voice run up into an impassioned squeak when he be afraid. the dowd must be an extraordinary woman. she explain that have he be a bachelor she might not have object to his devotion. but since he be a marry man and the father of a very nice baby she consider him a hypocrite and this she repeat twice. she wind up her drawl with. an i m tellin you this because your wife be angry with me an i hate quarrellin with any other woman an i like your wife. you know how you have behave for the last six week. you shouldn t have do it indeed you shouldn t. you re too old an too fat. can t you imagine how the dance master would wince at that. now go away she say. i don t want to tell you what i think of you because i think you be not nice. i ll stay he ere till the next dance begin. do you think that the creature have so much in her. 
i never study her a closely a you do. it sound unnatural. what happen. 
the dance master attempt blandishment reproof jocularity and the style of the lord high warden and i have almost to pinch the hawley boy to make him keep quiet. she grunt at the end of each sentence and in the end he go away swear to himself quite like a man in a novel. he look more objectionable than ever. i laugh. i love that woman in spite of her clothe. and now i m go to bed. what do you think of it. 
i shan t begin to think till the morning say mr. mallowe yawn. perhaps she speak the truth. they do fly into it by accident sometimes. 
mr. hauksbee s account of her eavesdrop be an ornate one but truthful in the main. for reason best know to herself mr. shady delville have turn upon mr. bend and rent him limb from limb cast him away limp and disconcert ere she withdraw the light of her eye from him permanently. be a man of resource and anything but please in that he have be call both old and fat he give mr. bend to understand that he have during her absence in the doon be the victim of unceasing persecution at the hand of mr. delville and he tell the tale so often and with such eloquence that he end in believe it while his wife marvel at the manner and custom of some woman. when the situation show sign of languish mr. waddy be always on hand to wake the smoulder fire of suspicion in mr. bend s bosom and to contribute generally to the peace and comfort of the hotel. mr. bend s life be not a happy one for if mr. waddy s story be true he be argue his wife untrustworthy to the last degree. if his own statement be true his charm of manner and conversation be so great that he need constant surveillance. and he receive it till he repent genuinely of his marriage and neglect his personal appearance. mr. delville alone in the hotel be unchanged. she remove her chair some six pace towards the head of the table and occasionally in the twilight venture on timid overture of friendship to mr. bend which be repulse. 
she doe it for my sake hint the virtuous bend. 
a dangerous and design woman purr mr. waddy. 
bad of all every other hotel in simla be full. 
polly be you afraid of diphtheria. 
of nothing in the world except small pox diphtheria kill but it doesn t disfigure. why do you ask. 
because the bend baby ha get it and the whole hotel be upside down in consequence. the waddy ha set her five young on the rail and flee. the dance master fear for his precious throat and that miserable little woman his wife ha no notion of what ought to be do. she want to put it into a mustard bath for croup. 
where do you learn all this. 
just now on the mall. dr. howlen tell me. the manager of the hotel be abuse the bent and the bent be abuse the manager. they be a feckless couple. 
well. what s on your mind. 
this. and i know it s a grave thing to ask. 
would you seriously object to my bring the child over here with it mother. 
on the most strict understand that we see nothing of the dance master. 
he will be only too glad to stay away. polly you re an angel. the woman really be at her wit end. 
and you know nothing about her careless and would hold her up to public scorn if it give you a minute s amusement. therefore you risk your life for the sake of her brat. no loo i m not the angel. i shall keep to my room and avoid her. but do a you please only tell me why you do it. 
mr. hauksbee s eye soften. she look out of the window and back into mr. mallowe s face. 
i don t know say mr. hauksbee simply. 
you dear. 
polly. and for aught you know you might have take my fringe off. never do that again without warn. now we ll get the room ready. i don t suppose i shall be allow to circulate in society for a month. 
and i also. thank goodness i shall at last get all the sleep i want. 
much to mr. bend s surprise she and the baby be bring over to the house almost before she know where she be. bend be devoutly and undisguisedly thankful for he be afraid of the infection and also hop that a few week in the hotel alone with mr. delville might lead to explanation. mr. bend have throw her jealousy to the wind in her fear for her child s life. 
we can give you good milk say mr. hauksbee to her and our house be much near to the doctor s than the hotel and you win t feel a though you be live in a hostile camp. where be the dear mr. waddy. she seem to be a particular friend of yours. 
they ve all leave me say mr. bend bitterly. mr. waddy go first. she say i ought to be ashamed of myself for introduce disease there and i be sure it wasn t my fault that little dora. 
how nice. coo mr. hauksbee. the waddy be an infectious disease herself more quickly catch than the plague and the taker run presently mad. i live next door to her at the elysium three year ago. now see you win t give u the least trouble and i ve ornament all the house with sheet soak in carbolic. it smell comfort doesn t it. remember i m always in call and my ayah s at your service when yours go to her meal and and if you cry i ll never forgive you. 
dora bend occupy her mother s unprofitable attention through the day and the night. the doctor call thrice in the twenty four hour and the house reek with the smell of the condy s fluid chlorine water and carbolic acid wash. mr. mallowe keep to her own room she consider that she have make sufficient concession in the cause of humanity and mr. hauksbee be more esteem by the doctor a a help in the sick room than the half distraught mother. 
i know nothing of illness say mr. hauksbee to the doctor. only tell me what to do and i ll do it. 
keep that crazy woman from kiss the child and let her have a little to do with the nurse a you possibly can say the doctor. i d turn her out of the sick room but that i honestly believe she d die of anxiety. she be le than no good and i depend on you and the ayah remember. 
mr. hauksbee accept the responsibility though it paint olive hollow under her eye and force her to her old dress. mr. bend cling to her with more than childlike faith. 
i know you ll make dora well win t you. she say at least twenty time a day. and twenty time a day mr. hauksbee answer valiantly of course i will. 
but dora do not improve and the doctor seem to be always in the house. 
there s some danger of the thing take a bad turn he say. i ll come over between three and four in the morning to morrow. 
good gracious. say mr. hauksbee. he never tell me what the turn would be. my education ha be horribly neglect. and i have only this foolish mother woman to fall back upon. 
the night wear through slowly and mr. hauksbee doze in a chair by the fire. there be a dance at the viceregal lodge and she dream of it till she be aware of mr. bend s anxious eye star into her own. 
wake up. wake up. do something. cry mr. bend piteously. dora s choke to death. do you mean to let her die. 
mr. hauksbee jump to her foot and bend over the bed. the child be fight for breath while the mother wring her hand despairingly. 
oh what can i do. what can you do. she win t stay still. i can t hold her. why didn t the doctor say this be come. scream mr. bend. win t you help me. she s die. 
i i ve never see a child die before. stammer mr. hauksbee feebly and then let none blame her weakness after the strain of long watch she break down and cover her face with her hand. the ayah on the threshold snore peacefully. 
there be a rattle of rickshaw wheel below the clash of an open door a heavy step on the stair and mr. delville enter to find mr. bend scream for the doctor a she run round the room. mr. hauksbee her hand to her ear and her face bury in the chintz of a chair be quiver with pain at each cry from the bed and murmur thank god i never bore a child. oh. thank god i never bore a child. 
mr. delville look at the bed for an instant take mr. bend by the shoulder and say quietly get me some caustic. be quick. 
the mother obey mechanically. mr. delville have throw herself down by the side of the child and be open it mouth. 
oh you re kill her. cry mr. bend. where s the doctor. leave her alone. 
mr. delville make no reply for a minute but busy herself with the child. 
now the caustic and hold a lamp behind my shoulder. will you do a you be tell. the acid bottle if you don t know what i mean she say. 
a second time mr. delville bend over the child. mr. hauksbee her face still hide sob and shiver. one of the ayah stagger sleepily into the room yawn. doctor sahib come. 
mr. delville turn her head. 
you re only just in time she say. it be chokin her when i come an i ve burn it. 
there be no sign of the membrane get to the air passage after the last steam. it be the general weakness i fear say the doctor half to himself and he whisper a he look you ve do what i should have be afraid to do without consultation. 
she be dyin say mr. delville under her breath. can you do anythin. what a mercy it be i go to the dance. 
mr. hauksbee raise her head. 
be it all over. she gasp. i m useless i m bad than useless. what be you do here. 
she star at mr. delville and mr. bend realise for the first time who be the goddess from the machine star also. 
then mr. delville make explanation put on a dirty long glove and smooth a crumple and ill fit ball dress. 
i be at the dance an the doctor be tellin me about your baby bein so ill. so i come away early an your door be open an i i lose my boy this way six month ago an i ve be tryin to forget it ever since an i i i be very sorry for intrudin an anythin that ha happen. 
mr. bend be put out the doctor s eye with a lamp a he stoop over dora. 
take it away say the doctor. i think the child will do thank to you mr. delville. i should have come too late but i assure you he be address himself to mr. delville i have not the faint reason to expect this. the membrane must have grow like a mushroom. will one of you help me please. 
he have reason for the last sentence. mr. hauksbee have throw herself into mr. delville s arm where she be weep bitterly and mr. bend be unpicturesquely mix up with both while from the tangle come the sound of many sob and much promiscuous kiss. 
good gracious. i ve spoil all your beautiful rose. say mr. hauksbee lift her head from the lump of crush gum and calico atrocity on mr. delville s shoulder and hurry to the doctor. 
mr. delville pick up her shawl and slouch out of the room mop her eye with the glove that she have not put on. 
i always say she be more than a woman sob mr. hauksbee hysterically and that prof it. 
six week late mr. bend and dora have return to the hotel. mr. hauksbee have come out of the valley of humiliation have cease to reproach herself for her collapse in an hour of need and be even begin to direct the affair of the world a before. 
so nobody die and everything go off a it should and i kiss the dowd polly. i feel so old. doe it show in my face. 
kiss don t a a rule do they. of course you know what the result of the dowd s providential arrival ha be. 
they ought to build her a statue only no sculptor dare copy those skirt. 
ah. say mr. mallowe quietly. she ha find another reward. the dance master ha be smirk through simla give every one to understand that she come because of her undying love for him for him to save his child and all simla naturally belief this. 
but mr. bend. 
mr. bend belief it more than any one else. she win t speak to the dowd now. isn t the dance master an angel. 
mr. hauksbee lift up her voice and rag till bed time. the door of the two room stand open. 
polly say a voice from the darkness what do that american heiress globe trotter girl say last season when she be tip out of her rickshaw turn a corner. some absurd adjective that make the man who pick her up explode. 
paltry say mr. mallowe. through her nose like this ha ow pahltry. 
exactly say the voice. ha ow pahltry it all be. 
which. 
everything. baby diphtheria mr. bend and the dance master i whoop in a chair and the dowd drop in from the cloud. i wonder what the motive be all the motif. 
um. 
what do you think. 
don t ask me. go to sleep. 
only a subaltern. 
not only to enforce by command but to encourage by example the energetic discharge of duty and the steady endurance of the difficulty and privation inseparable from military service. bengal army regulation. 
they make bobby wick pas an examination at sandhurst. he be a gentleman before he be gazette so when the empress announce that gentleman cadet robert hanna wick be post a second lieutenant to the tyneside tail twister at krab bokhar he become an officer and a gentleman which be an enviable thing. and there be joy in the house of wick where mamma wick and all the little wick fell upon their knee and offer incense to bobby by virtue of his achievement. 
papa wick have be a commissioner in his day hold authority over three million of men in the chota buldana division build great work for the good of the land and do his best to make two blade of grass grow where there be but one before. of course nobody know anything about this in the little english village where he be just old mr. wick and have forget that he be a companion of the order of the star of india. 
he pat bobby on the shoulder and say. well do my boy. 
there follow while the uniform be be prepare an interval of pure delight during which bobby take brevet rank a a man at the woman swamp tennis party and tea fight of the village and i daresay have his join time be extend would have fall in love with several girl at once. little country village at home be very full of nice girl because all the young men come out to india to make their fortune. 
india say papa wick be the place. i ve have thirty year of it and begad i d like to go back again. when you join the tail twister you ll be among friend if every one hasn t forget wick of chota buldana and a lot of people will be kind to you for our sake. the mother will tell you more about outfit than i can. but remember this. stick to your regiment bobby stick to your regiment. you ll see men all round you go into the staff corp and do every possible sort of duty but regimental and you may be tempt to follow suit. now so long a you keep within your allowance and i haven t stint you there stick to the line the whole line and nothing but the line. be careful how you back another young fool s bill and if you fall in love with a woman twenty year old than yourself don t tell me about it that s all. 
with these counsel and many others equally valuable do papa wick fortify bobby ere that last awful night at portsmouth when the officer quarter hold more inmate than be provide for by the regulation and the liberty men of the ship fell foul of the draft for india and the battle rag from the dockyard gate even to the slum of longport while the drab of fratton come down and scratch the face of the queen s officer. 
bobby wick with an ugly bruise on his freckle nose a sick and shaky detachment to manuvre in ship and the comfort of fifty scornful female to attend to have no time to feel home sick till the malabar reach mid channel when he double his emotion with a little guard visit and a great many other matter. 
the tail twister be a most particular regiment. those who know them least say that they be eat up with side. but their reserve and their internal arrangement generally be merely protective diplomacy. some five year before the colonel command have look into the fourteen fearless eye of seven plump and juicy subaltern who have all apply to enter the staff corp and have ask them why the three star should he a colonel of the line command a dash nursery for double dash bottle sucker who put on condemn tin spur and ride qualify moke at the hiatused head of forsake black regiment. he be a rude man and a terrible. wherefore the remnant take measure [with the half butt a an engine of public opinion] till the rumour go abroad that young men who use the tail twister a a crutch to the staff corp have many and vary trial to endure. however a regiment have just a much right to it own secret a a woman. 
when bobby come up from deolali and take his place among the tail twister it be gently but firmly bear in upon him that the regiment be his father and his mother and his indissolubly wed wife and that there be no crime under the canopy of heaven black than that of bring shame on the regiment which be the best shoot best drill best set up brave most illustrious and in all respect most desirable regiment within the compass of the seven sea. he be teach the legend of the mess plate from the great grin golden god that have come out of the summer palace in pekin to the silver mount markhor horn snuff mull present by the last c. o. [he who spake to the seven subalterns]. and every one of those legend tell him of battle fight at long odds without fear a without support. of hospitality catholic a an arab s. of friendship deep a the sea and steady a the fight line. of honour win by hard road for honour s sake. and of instant and unquestioning devotion to the regiment the regiment that claim the life of all and life for ever. 
more than once too he come officially into contact with the regimental colour which look like the line of a bricklayer s hat on the end of a chew stick. bobby do not kneel and worship them because british subaltern be not construct in that manner. indeed he condemn them for their weight at the very moment that they be fill with awe and other more noble sentiment. 
but best of all be the occasion when he move with the tail twister in review order at the break of a november day. allow for duty men and sick the regiment be one thousand and eighty strong and bobby belong to them. for be he not a subaltern of the line the whole line and nothing but the line a the tramp of two thousand one hundred and sixty sturdy ammunition boot attest. he would not have change place with deighton of the horse battery whirl by in a pillar of cloud to a chorus of strong right. strong leave. or hogan yale of the white hussar lead his squadron for all it be worth with the price of horseshoe throw in. or tick boileau try to live up to his fierce blue and gold turban while the wasp of the bengal cavalry stretch to a gallop in the wake of the long lollopping walers of the white hussar. 
they fight through the clear cool day and bobby felt a little thrill run down his spine when he hear the tinkle tinkle tinkle of the empty cartridge case hop from the breech block after the roar of the volley. for he know that he should live to hear that sound in action. the review end in a glorious chase across the plain battery thunder after cavalry to the huge disgust of the white hussar and the tyneside tail twister hunt a sikh regiment till the lean lathy singhs pant with exhaustion. bobby be dusty and drip long before noon but his enthusiasm be merely focus not diminish. 
he return to sit at the foot of revere his skipper that be to say the captain of his company and to be instruct in the dark art and mystery of manage men which be a very large part of the profession of arm. 
if you haven t a taste that way say revere between his puff of his cheroot you ll never be able to get the hang of it but remember bobby t isn t the best drill though drill be nearly everything that haul a regiment through hell and out on the other side. it s the man who know how to handle men goat men swine men dog men and so on. 
dormer for instance say bobby i think he come under the head of fool men. he mope like a sick owl. 
that s where you make your mistake my son. dormer isn t a fool yet but he s a dash dirty soldier and his room corporal make fun of his sock before kit inspection. dormer be two third pure brute go into a corner and growl. 
how do you know. say bobby admiringly. 
because a company commander ha to know these thing because if he doe not know he may have crime ay murder brew under his very nose and yet not see that it s there. dormer be be badger out of his mind big a he be and he hasn t intellect enough to resent it. he s take to quiet booze and bobby when the butt of a room go on the drink or take to mop by himself measure be necessary to pull him out of himself. 
what measure. man can t run round coddle his men for ever. 
no. the men would precious soon show him that he be not want. you ve get to. 
here the colour sergeant enter with some paper. bobby reflect for a while a revere look through the company form. 
doe dormer do anything sergeant. bobby ask with the air of one continue an interrupt conversation. 
no sir. doe be dooty like a hortomato say the sergeant who delight in long word. a dirty soldier and e s under full stoppage for new kit. it s cover with scale sir. 
scale. what scale. 
fish scale sir. e s always pokin in the mud by the river an a cleanin them muchly fish with be thumb. revere be still absorb in the company paper and the sergeant who be sternly fond of bobby continue e generally go down there when e s get be skinful beggin your pardon sir an they do say that the more lush in he briated e be the more fish e catch. they call im the looney fishmonger in the comp ny sir. 
revere sign the last paper and the sergeant retreat. 
it s a filthy amusement sigh bobby to himself. then aloud to revere. be you really worry about dormer. 
a little. you see he s never mad enough to send to hospital or drink enough to run in but at any minute he may flare up brood and sulk a he doe. he resent any interest be show in him and the only time i take him out shoot he all but shoot me by accident. 
i fish say bobby with a wry face. i hire a country boat and go down the river from thursday to sunday and the amiable dormer go with me if you can spare u both. 
you blaze young fool. say revere but his heart be full of much more pleasant word. 
bobby the captain of a dhoni with private dormer for mate drop down the river on thursday morning the private at the bow the subaltern at the helm. the private glare uneasily at the subaltern who respect the reserve of the private. 
after six hour dormer pace to the stern salute and say beg y pardon sir but be you ever on the durh m canal. 
no say bobby wick. come and have some tiffin. 
they eat in silence. a the even fell private dormer break forth speak to himself. 
hi be on the durh m canal jes such a night come next week twelve month a trailin of my toe in the water. he smoke and say no more till bedtime. 
the witchery of the dawn turn the gray river reach to purple gold and opal. and it be a though the lumber dhoni creep across the splendour of a new heaven. 
private dormer pop his head out of his blanket and gaze at the glory below and around. 
well damn my eye. say private dormer in an awe whisper. this ere be like a bloomin gallantry show. for the rest of the day he be dumb but achieve an ensanguined filthiness through the clean of big fish. 
the boat return on saturday even. dormer have be struggle with speech since noon. a the line and luggage be be disembark he find tongue. 
beg y pardon sir he say but would you would you min shakin ands with me sir. 
of course not say bobby and he shake accordingly. dormer return to barrack and bobby to mess. 
he want a little quiet and some fish i think say bobby. my aunt but he s a filthy sort of animal. have you ever see him clean them muchly fish with be thumb. 
anyhow say revere three week late he s do his best to keep his thing clean. 
when the spring die bobby join in the general scramble for hill leave and to his surprise and delight secure three month. 
a good a boy a i want say revere the admire skipper. 
the best of the batch say the adjutant to the colonel. keep back that young skrim shanker porkiss sir and let revere make him sit up. 
so bobby depart joyously to simla pahar with a tin box of gorgeous raiment. 
son of wick old wick of chota buldana. ask him to dinner dear say the age men. 
what a nice boy. say the matron and the maid. 
first class place simla. oh rip. say bobby wick and order new white cord breech on the strength of it. 
we re in a bad way write revere to bobby at the end of two month. since you leave the regiment ha take to fever and be fairly rotten with it two hundred in hospital about a hundred in cell drink to keep off fever and the company on parade fifteen file strong at the outside. there s rather more sickness in the out village than i care for but then i m so blister with prickly heat that i m ready to hang myself. what s the yarn about your mash a miss haverley up there. not serious i hope. you re over young to hang millstone round your neck and the colonel will turf you out of that in double quick time if you attempt it. 
it be not the colonel that bring bobby out of simla but a much more to be respect commandant. the sickness in the out village spread the bazar be put out of bound and then come the news that the tail twister must go into camp. the message flash to the hill station. cholera leave stop officer recall. ala for the white glove in the neatly solder box the ride and the dance and picnic that be to be the love half speak and the debt unpaid. without demur and without question fast a tonga could fly or pony gallop back to their regiment and their battery a though they be hasten to their wedding flee the subaltern. 
bobby receive his order on return from a dance at viceregal lodge where he have but only the haverley girl know what bobby have say or how many waltz he have claim for the next ball. six in the morning saw bobby at the tonga office in the drench rain the whirl of the last waltz still in his ear and an intoxication due neither to wine nor waltz in his brain. 
good man. shout deighton of the horse battery through the mist. whar you raise dat tonga. i m come with you. ow. but i ve a head and a half. i didn t sit out all night. they say the battery s awful bad and he hum dolorously. 
leave the what at the what s it name leave the flock without shelter leave the corpse uninterred leave the bride at the altar. 
my faith. it ll be more bally corpse than bride though this journey. jump in bobby. get on coachwan. 
on the umballa platform wait a detachment of officer discuss the late news from the stricken cantonment and it be here that bobby learn the real condition of the tail twister. 
they go into camp say an elderly major recall from the whist table at mussoorie to a sickly native regiment they go into camp with two hundred and ten sick in cart. two hundred and ten fever case only and the balance look like so many ghost with sore eye. a madras regiment could have walk through em. 
but they be a fit a be damn when i leave them. say bobby. 
then you d good make them a fit a bedamn when you rejoin say the major brutally. 
bobby press his forehead against the rain splash window pane a the train lumber across the sodden doab and pray for the health of the tyneside tail twister. naini tal have send down her contingent with all speed. the lather pony of the dalhousie road stagger into pathankot tax to the full stretch of their strength. while from cloudy darjiling the calcutta mail whirl up the last straggler of the little army that be to fight a fight in which be neither medal nor honour for the win against an enemy none other than the sickness that destroyeth in the noonday. 
and a each man report himself he say. this be a bad business and go about his own forthwith for every regiment and battery in the cantonment be under canvas the sickness bear them company. 
bobby fight his way through the rain to the tail twister temporary mess and revere could have fall on the boy s neck for the joy of see that ugly wholesome phiz once more. 
keep em amuse and interest say revere. they go on the drink poor fool after the first two case and there be no improvement. oh it s good to have you back bobby. porkiss be a never mind. 
deighton come over from the artillery camp to attend a dreary mess dinner and contribute to the general gloom by nearly weep over the condition of his beloved battery. porkiss so far forget himself a to insinuate that the presence of the officer could do no earthly good and that the best thing would be to send the entire regiment into hospital and let the doctor look after them. porkiss be demoralise with fear nor be his peace of mind restore when revere say coldly. oh. the sooner you go out the good if that s your way of think. any public school could send u fifty good men in your place but it take time time porkiss and money and a certain amount of trouble to make a regiment. s pose you re the person we go into camp for eh. 
whereupon porkiss be overtake with a great and chilly fear which a drench in the rain do not allay and two day late quit this world for another where men do fondly hope allowance be make for the weakness of the flesh. the regimental sergeant major look wearily across the sergeant mess tent when the news be announce. 
there go the bad of them he say. it ll take the best and then please god it ll stop. the sergeant be silent till one say. it couldn t be him. and all know of whom travis be think. 
bobby wick storm through the tent of his company rally rebuke mildly a be consistent with the regulation chaff the faint hearted. hale the sound into the watery sunlight when there be a break in the weather and bid them be of good cheer for their trouble be nearly at an end. scuttle on his dun pony round the outskirt of the camp and head back men who with the innate perversity of british soldier be always wander into infect village or drink deeply from rain flood marsh. comfort the panic stricken with rude speech and more than once tend the die who have no friend the men without towny. organise with banjo and burn cork sing song which should allow the talent of the regiment full play. and generally a he explain play the giddy garden goat all round. 
you re worth half a dozen of u bobby say revere in a moment of enthusiasm. how the devil do you keep it up. 
bobby make no answer but have revere look into the breast pocket of his coat he might have see there a sheaf of badly write letter which perhaps account for the power that possess the boy. a letter come to bobby every other day. the spell be not above reproach but the sentiment must have be most satisfactory for on receipt bobby s eye soften marvellously and he be wont to fall into a tender abstraction for a while ere shake his crop head he charge into his work. 
by what power he draw after him the heart of the rough and the tail twister count in their rank some rough diamond indeed be a mystery to both skipper and c. o. who learn from the regimental chaplain that bobby be considerably more in request in the hospital tent than the reverend john emery. 
the men seem fond of you. be you in the hospital much. say the colonel who do his daily round and order the men to get well with a hardness that do not cover his bitter grief. 
a little sir say bobby. 
shouldn t go there too often if i be you. they say it s not contagious but there s no use in run unnecessary risk. we can t afford to have you down y know. 
six day late it be with the utmost difficulty that the post runner plash his way out to the camp with the mail bag for the rain be fall in torrent. bobby receive a letter bore it off to his tent and the programme for the next week s sing song be satisfactorily dispose of sit down to answer it. for an hour the unhandy pen toil over the paper and where sentiment rise to more than normal tide level bobby wick stick out his tongue and breathe heavily. he be not use to letter write. 
beg y pardon sir say a voice at the tent door. but dormer s orrid bad sir an they ve take him orf sir. 
damn private dormer and you too. say bobby wick run the blotter over the half finish letter. tell him i ll come in the morning. 
e s awful bad sir say the voice hesitatingly. there be an undecided squelch of heavy boot. 
well. say bobby impatiently. 
excusin imself before and for takin the liberty e say it would be a comfort for to assist im sir if. 
tattoo lao. get my pony. here come in out of the rain till i m ready. what blast nuisance you be. that s brandy. drink some. you want it. hang on to my stirrup and tell me if i go too fast. 
strengthen by a four finger nip which he swallow without a wink the hospital orderly keep up with the slip mud stain and very disgust pony a it shamble to the hospital tent. 
private dormer be certainly orrid bad. he have all but reach the stage of collapse and be not pleasant to look upon. 
what s this dormer. say bobby bend over the man. you re not go out this time. you ve get to come fish with me once or twice more yet. 
the blue lip part and in the ghost of a whisper say beg y pardon sir disturbin of you now but would you min oldin my and sir. 
bobby sit on the side of the bed and the icy cold hand close on his own like a vice force a lady s ring which be on the little finger deep into the flesh. bobby set his lip and wait the water drip from the hem of his trouser. an hour pass and the grasp of the hand do not relax nor do the expression of the draw face change. bobby with infinite craft light himself a cheroot with the leave hand his right arm be numb to the elbow and resign himself to a night of pain. 
dawn show a very white face subaltern sit on the side of a sick man s cot and a doctor in the doorway use language unfit for publication. 
have you be here all night you young as. say the doctor. 
there or thereabouts say bobby ruefully. he s freeze on to me. 
dormer s mouth shut with a click. he turn his head and sigh. the cling hand open and bobby s arm fell useless at his side. 
he ll do say the doctor quietly. it must have be a toss up all through the night. think you re to be congratulate on this case. 
oh bosh. say bobby. i think the man have go out long ago only only i didn t care to take my hand away. rub my arm down there s a good chap. what a grip the brute ha. i m chill to the marrow. he pass out of the tent shiver. 
private dormer be allow to celebrate his repulse of death by strong water. four day late he sit on the side of his cot and say to the patient mildly. i d a liken to a speak to im so i should. 
but at that time bobby be read yet another letter he have the most persistent correspondent of any man in camp and be even then about to write that the sickness have abate and in another week at the outside would be go. he do not intend to say that the chill of a sick man s hand seem to have strike into the heart whose capacity for affection he dwell on at such length. he do intend to enclose the illustrate programme of the forthcoming sing song whereof he be not a little proud. he also intend to write on many other matter which do not concern u and doubtless would have do so but for the slight feverish headache which make him dull and unresponsive at mess. 
you be overdo it bobby say his skipper. might give the rest of u credit of do a little work. you go on a if you be the whole mess roll into one. take it easy. 
i will say bobby. i m feel do up somehow. revere look at him anxiously and say nothing. 
there be a flicker of lantern about the camp that night and a rumour that bring men out of their cot to the tent door a paddle of the naked foot of doolie bearer and the rush of a gallop horse. 
wot s up. ask twenty tent. and through twenty tent run the answer wick e s down. 
they bring the news to revere and he groan. any one but bobby and i shouldn t have care. the sergeant major be right. 
not go out this journey gasp bobby a he be lift from the doolie. not go out this journey. then with an air of supreme conviction i can t you see. 
not if i can do anything. say the surgeon major who have hasten over from the mess where he have be din. 
he and the regimental surgeon fight together with death for the life of bobby wick. their work be interrupt by a hairy apparition in a bluegray dress gown who star in horror at the bed and cry oh my gawd. it can t be im. until an indignant hospital orderly whisk him away. 
if care of man and desire to live could have do aught bobby would have be save. a it be he make a fight of three day and the surgeon major s brow uncreased. we ll save him yet he say. and the surgeon who though he rank with the captain have a very youthful heart go out upon the word and prance joyously in the mud. 
not go out this journey whisper bobby wick gallantly at the end of the third day. 
bravo. say the surgeon major. that s the way to look at it bobby. 
a even fell a gray shade gather round bobby s mouth and he turn his face to the tent wall wearily. the surgeon major frown. 
i m awfully tire say bobby very faintly. what s the use of bother me with medicine. i don t want it. let me alone. 
the desire for life have depart and bobby be content to drift away on the easy tide of death. 
it s no good say the surgeon major. he doesn t want to live. he s meet it poor child. and he blow his nose. 
half a mile away the regimental band be play the overture to the sing song for the men have be tell that bobby be out of danger. the clash of the brass and the wail of the horn reach bobby s ear. 
be there a single joy or pain that i should never kno ow. you do not love me ti in vain bid me good bye and go. 
an expression of hopeless irritation cross the boy s face and he try to shake his head. 
the surgeon major bend down what be it bobby. not that waltz mutter bobby. that s our own our very own own. mummy dear. 
with this he sink into the stupor that give place to death early next morning. 
revere his eye red at the rim and his nose very white go into bobby s tent to write a letter to papa wick which should bow the white head of the ex commissioner of chota buldana in the keen sorrow of his life. bobby s little store of paper lay in confusion on the table and among them a half finish letter. the last sentence run. so you see darling there be really no fear because a long a i know you care for me and i care for you nothing can touch me. 
revere stay in the tent for an hour. when he come out his eye be red than ever. 
private conklin sit on a turn down bucket and listen to a not unfamiliar tune. private conklin be a convalescent and should have be tenderly treat. 
ho. say private conklin. there s another bloomin orf cer da ed. 
the bucket shoot from under him and his eye fill with a smithyful of spark. a tall man in a blue gray bedgown be regard him with deep disfavour. 
you ought to take shame for yourself conky. orf cer. bloomin orf cer. i ll learn you to misname the like of im. hangel. bloomin hangel. that s wot e be. 
and the hospital orderly be so satisfy with the justice of the punishment that he do not even order private dormer back to his cot. 
in the matter of a private. 
hurrah. hurrah. a soldier s life for me. shout boy shout. for it make you jolly and free. the ramrod corp. 
people who have see say that one of the quaint spectacle of human frailty be an outbreak of hysteric in a girl school. it start without warn generally on a hot afternoon among the elder pupil. a girl giggle till the giggle get beyond control. then she throw up her head and cry honk honk honk like a wild goose and tear mix with the laughter. if the mistress be wise she will rap out something severe at this point and check matter. if she be tender hearted and send for a drink of water the chance be largely in favor of another girl laugh at the afflict one and herself collapse. thus the trouble spread and may end in half of what answer to the low sixth of a boy school rock and whoop together. give a week of warm weather two stately promenade per diem a heavy mutton and rice meal in the middle of the day a certain amount of nag from the teacher and a few other thing some amaze effect develop. at least this be what folk say who have have experience. 
now the mother superior of a convent and the colonel of a british infantry regiment would be justly shock at any comparison be make between their respective charge. but it be a fact that under certain circumstance thomas in bulk can be work up into ditthering ripple hysteria. he doe not weep but he show his trouble unmistakably and the consequence get into the newspaper and all the good people who hardly know a martini from a snide say. take away the brute s ammunition. 
thomas isn t a brute and his business which be to look after the virtuous people demand that he shall have his ammunition to his hand. he doesn t wear silk stocking and he really ought to be supply with a new adjective to help him to express his opinion. but for all that he be a great man. if you call him the heroic defender of the national honor one day and a brutal and licentious soldiery the next you naturally bewilder him and he look upon you with suspicion. there be nobody to speak for thomas except people who have theory to work off on him. and nobody understand thomas except thomas and he doe not always know what be the matter with himself. 
that be the prologue. this be the story. 
corporal slane be engage to be marry to miss jhansi m kenna whose history be well know in the regiment and elsewhere. he have his colonel s permission and be popular with the men every arrangement have be make to give the wed what private ortheris call eeklar. it fell in the heart of the hot weather and after the wed slane be go up to the hill with the bride. none the le slane s grievance be that the affair would be only a hire carriage wed and he felt that the eeklar of that be meagre. miss m kenna do not care so much. the sergeant s wife be help her to make her wed dress and she be very busy. slane be just then the only moderately content man in barrack. all the rest be more or le miserable. 
and they have so much to make them happy too. all their work be over at eight in the morning and for the rest of the day they could lie on their back and smoke canteen plug and swear at the punkah cooly. they enjoy a fine full flesh meal in the middle of the day and then throw themselves down on their cot and sweat and sleep till it be cool enough to go out with their towny whose vocabulary contain le than six hundred word and the adjective and whose view on every conceivable question they have hear many time before. 
there be the canteen of course and there be the temperance room with the second hand paper in it. but a man of any profession cannot read for eight hour a day in a temperature of degree or degree in the shade run up sometimes to degree at midnight. very few men even though they get a pannikin of flat stale muddy beer and hide it under their cot can continue drink for six hour a day. one man try but he die and nearly the whole regiment go to his funeral because it give them something to do. it be too early for the excitement of fever or cholera. the men could only wait and wait and wait and watch the shadow of the barrack creep across the blind white dust. that be a gay life. 
they lounge about cantonment it be too hot for any sort of game and almost too hot for vice and fuddle themselves in the even and fill themselves to distension with the healthy nitrogenous food provide for them and the more they stoke the le exercise they take and more explosive they grow. then temper begin to wear away and men fell a brood over insult real or imaginary for they have nothing else to think of. the tone of the repartee change and instead of say light heartedly. i ll knock your silly face in men grow laboriously polite and hint that the cantonment be not big enough for themselves and their enemy and that there would be more space for one of the two in another place. 
it may have be the devil who arrange the thing but the fact of the case be that losson have for a long time be worry simmons in an aimless way. it give him occupation. the two have their cot side by side and would sometimes spend a long afternoon swear at each other. but simmons be afraid of losson and dare not challenge him to a fight. he think over the word in the hot still night and half the hate he felt toward losson be vent on the wretched punkahcoolie. 
losson buy a parrot in the bazar and put it into a little cage and lower the cage into the cool darkness of a well and sit on the well curb shout bad language down to the parrot. he teach it to say. simmons ye so oor which mean swine and several other thing entirely unfit for publication. he be a big gross man and he shake like a jelly when the parrot have the sentence correctly. simmons however shake with rage for all the room be laugh at him the parrot be such a disreputable puff of green feather and it look so human when it chatter. losson use to sit swing his fat leg on the side of the cot and ask the parrot what it think of simmons. the parrot would answer. simmons ye so oor. good boy losson use to say scratch the parrot s head. ye ear that sim. and simmons use to turn over on his stomach and make answer. i ear. take eed you don t ear something one of these day. 
in the restless night after he have be asleep all day fit of blind rage come upon simmonr and hold him till he tremble all over while he think in how many different way he would slay losson. sometimes he would picture himself trample the life out of the man with heavy ammunition boot and at others smash in his face with the butt and at others jump on his shoulder and drag the head back till the neckbone crack. then his mouth would feel hot and fevered and he would reach out for another sup of the beer in the pannikin. 
but the fancy that come to him most frequently and stay with him long be one connect with the great roll of fat under losson s right ear. he notice it first on a moonlight night and thereafter it be always before his eye. it be a fascinate roll of fat. a man could get his hand upon it and tear away one side of the neck. or he could place the muzzle of a rifle on it and blow away all the head in a flash. losson have no right to be sleek and content and well to do when he simmons be the butt of the room some day perhaps he would show those who laugh at the simmons ye so oor joke that he be a good a the rest and hold a man s life in the crook of his forefinger. when losson snore simmons hat him more bitterly than ever. why should losson be able to sleep when simmons have to stay awake hour after hour toss and turn on the tape with the dull liver pain gnaw into his right side and his head throb and ache after canteen. he think over this for many night and the world become unprofitable to him. he even blunt his naturally fine appetite with beer and tobacco. and all the while the parrot talk at and make a mock of him. 
the heat continue and the temper wear away more quickly than before. a sergeant s wife die of heat apoplexy in the night and the rumor run abroad that it be cholera. men rejoice openly hop that it would spread and send them into camp. but that be a false alarm. 
it be late on a tuesday even and the men be wait in the deep double veranda for last post when simmons go to the box at the foot of his bed take out his pipe and slam the lid down with a bang that echo through the desert barrack like the crack of a rifle. ordinarily speak the men would have take no notice. but their nerve be fret to fiddle string. they jump up and three or four clatter into the barrack room only to find simmons kneel by his box. 
owl it s you be it. they say and laugh foolishly. we think twas. 
simmons rise slowly. if the accident have so shake his fellow what would not the reality do. 
you think it be do you. and what make you think. he say lash himself into madness a he go on. to hell with your think ye dirty spy. 
simmons ye so oor chuckle the parrot in the veranda sleepily recognize a well know voice. now that be absolutely all. 
the tension snap. simmons fell back on the arm rack deliberately the men be at the far end of the room and take out his rifle and packet of ammunition. don t go play the goat sim. say losson. put it down but there be a quaver in his voice. another man stoop slip his boot and hurl it at simmon s head. the prompt answer be a shoot which fire at random find it billet in losson s throat. losson fell forward without a word and the others scatter. 
you think it be. yell simmons. you re drivin me to it. i tell you you re drivin me to it. get up losson an don t lie shammin there you an your blast parrit that druv me to it. 
but there be an unaffected reality about losson s pose that show simmons what he have do. the men be still clamor on the veranda. simmons appropriate two more packet of ammunition and run into the moonlight mutter. i ll make a night of it. thirty roun s an the last for myself. take you that you dog. 
he drop on one knee and fire into the brown of the men on the veranda but the bullet fly high and land in the brickwork with a vicious phant that make some of the young one turn pale. it be a musketry theorist observe one thing to fire and another to be fire at. 
then the instinct of the chase flare up. the news spread from barrack to barrack and the men double out intent on the capture of simmons the wild beast who be head for the cavalry parade grind stop now and again to send back a shoot and a lurse in the direction of his pursuer. 
i ll learn you to spy on me. he shout. i ll learn you to give me dorg s name. come on the ole lot o you. colonel john anthony deever c. b. he turn toward the infantry mess and shake his rifle you think yourself the devil of a man but i tell jou that if you put your ugly old carcass outside o that door i ll make you the poor lookin man in the army. come out colonel john anthony deever c. b. come out and see me practiss on the rainge. i m the crack shoot of the ole bloomin battalion. in proof of which statement simmons fire at the light window of the mess house. 
private simmons e comp ny on the cavalry p rade grind sir with thirty round say a sergeant breathlessly to the colonel. shootin right and lef sir. shoot private losson. what s to be do sir. 
colonel john anthony deever c. b. sallied out only to be salute by a spurt of dust at his foot. 
pull up. say the second in command. i don t want my step in that way colonel. he s a dangerous a a mad dog. 
shoot him like one then say the colonel bitterly if he win t take his chance. my regiment too. if it have be the towhead i could have understand. 
private simmons have occupy a strong position near a well on the edge of the parade grind and be defy the regiment to come on. the regiment be not anxious to comply for there be small honor in be shoot by a fellow private. only corporal slane rifle in band throw himself down on the grind and worm his way toward the well. 
don t shoot say he to the men round him. like a not you ll hit me. i ll catch the beggar livin. 
simmons cease shout for a while and the noise of trap wheel could be hear across the plain. major oldyne command the horse battery be come back from a dinner in the civil line. be drive after his usual custom that be to say a fast a the horse could go. 
a orf cer. a bloom spangle orf cer shriek simmons. i ll make a scarecrow of that orf cer. the trap stop. 
what s this. demand the major of gunner. you there drop your rifle. 
why it s jerry blaze. i ain t get no quarrel with you jerry blaze. pas frien an all s well. 
but jerry blaze have not the faint intention of pass a dangerous murderer. he be a his adore battery swear long and fervently without knowledge of fear and they be surely the best judge for jerry blaze it be notorious have do his possible to kill a man each time the battery go out. 
he walk toward simmons with the intention of rush him and knock him down. 
don t make me do it sir say simmons. i ain t get nothing agin you. ah. you would. the major break into a run take that then. 
the major drop with a bullet through his shoulder and simmons stand over him. he have lose the satisfaction of kill losson in the desire way. hut here be a helpless body to his hand. should be slip in another cartridge and blow off the head or with the butt smash in the white face. he stop to consider and a cry go up from the far side of the parade grind. he s kill jerry blaze. but in the shelter of the well pillar simmons be safe except when he step out to fire. i ll blow yer andsome ead off jerry blaze say simmons reflectively. six an three be nine an one be ten an that leaf me another nineteen an one for myself. he tug at the string of the second packet of ammunition. corporal slane crawl out of the shadow of a bank into the moonlight. 
i see you. say simmons. come a bite furder on an i ll do for you. 
i m comm say corporal slane briefly. you ve do a bad day s work sim. come out ere an come back with me. 
come to laugbed simmons send a cartridge home with his thumb. not before i ve settle you an jerry blaze. 
the corporal be lie at full length in the dust of the parade grind a rifle under him. some of the le cautious men in the distance shout. shoot im. shoot im slane. 
you move and or foot slane say simmons an i ll kick jerry blaze ead in and shoot you after. 
i ain t movin say the corporal raise his head. you daren t it a man on be leg. let go o jerry blaze an come out o that with your fistes. come an it me. you daren t you bloomin dog shooter. 
i dare. 
you lie you man sticker. you sneakin sheeny butch you lie. see there. slane kick the rifle away and stand up in the peril of his life. come on now. 
the temptation be more than simmons could resist for the corporal in his white clothe offer a perfect mark. 
don t misname me shout simmons fire a he speak. the shoot miss and the shooter blind with rage throw his rifle down and rush at slane from the protection of the well. within strike distance he kick savagely at slane s stomach but the weedy corporal know something of simmons s weakness and know too the deadly guard for that kick. bow forward and draw up his right leg till the heel of the right foot be set some three inch above the inside of the leave knee cap he meet the blow stand on one leg exactly a gond stand when they meditate and ready for the fall that would follow. there be an oath the corporal fell over his own leave a shinbone meet shinbone and the private collapse his right leg break an inch above the ankle. 
pity you don t know that guard sim say slane spit out the dust a he rise. then raise his voice come an take him orf. i ve bruk be leg. this be not strictly true for the private have accomplish his own downfall since it be the special merit of that leg guard that the hard the kick the great the kicker s discomfiture. 
slane walk to jerry blaze and hang over him with ostentatious anxiety while simmons weep with pain be carry away. ope you ain t urt badly sir say slane. the major have faint and there be an ugly rag hole through the top of his arm. slane kneel down and murmur. s elp me i believe e s dead. well if that ain t my bloom luck all over. 
but the major be destine to lead his battery afield for many a long day with unshaken nerve. he be remove and nurse and pet into convalescence while the battery discuss the wisdom of capture simmons and blow him from a gun. they idolize their major and his reappearance on parade bring about a scene nowhere provide for in the army regulation. 
great too be the glory that fell to slane s share. the gunner would have make him drink thrice a day for at least a fortnight. even the colonel of his own regiment compliment him upon his coolness and the local paper call him a hero. these thing do not puff him up. when the major offer him money and thank the virtuous corporal take the one and put aside the other. but he have a request to make and preface it with many a beg y pardon sir. could the major see his way to let the slane m kenna wed be adorn by the presence of four battery horse to pull a hire barouche. the major could and so could the battery. excessively so. it be a gorgeous wed. 
* * * * *. 
wot do i do it for. say corporal slane. for the or o course. jhansi ain t a beauty to look at but i wasn t goin to ave a hire turn out. jerry blaze. if i adn t a want something sim might ha blow jerry blaze bloom ead into hirish stew for aught i d a care. 
and they hang private simmons hang him a high a haman in hollow square of the regiment. and the colonel say it be drink. and the chaplain be sure it be the devil. and simmons fancy it be both but he didn t know and only hop his fate would be a warn to his companion. and half a dozen intelligent publicist write six beautiful lead article on the prevalence of crime in the army. 
but not a soul think of compare the bloody mind simmons to the squawk gap schoolgirl with which this story open. 
the enlightenment of pagett m. p. 
because half a dozen grasshopper under a fern make the field ring with their importunate chink while thousand of great cattle repose beneath the shadow of the british oak chew the cud and be silent pray do not imagine that those who make the noise be the only inhabitant of the field that of course they be many in number or that after all they be other than the little shrivel meagre hop though loud and troublesome insect of the hour. burke. reflection on the revolution in france. 
they be sit in the veranda of the splendid palace of an indian pro consul. surround by all the glory and mystery of the immemorial east. in plain english it be a one storied ten room whitewash mud roof bungalow set in a dry garden of dusty tamarisk tree and divide from the road by a low mud wall. the green parrot scream overhead a they fly in battalion to the river for their morning drink. beyond the wall cloud of fine dust show where the cattle and goat of the city be pass afield to graze. the remorseless white light of the winter sunshine of northern india lay upon everything and improve nothing from the whine peisian wheel by the lawn tennis court to the long perspective of level road and the blue domed tomb of mohammedan saint just visible above the tree. 
a happy new year say orde to his guest. it s the first you ve ever spend out of england isn t it. 
yes. happy new year say pagett smile at the sunshine. what a divine climate you have here. just think of the brown cold fog hang over london now. and he rub his hand. 
it be more than twenty year since he have last see orde his schoolmate and their path in the world have divide early. the one have quit college to become a cog wheel in the machinery of the great indian government. the other more bless with good have be whirl into a similar position in the english scheme. three successive election have not affect pagett s position with a loyal constituency and he have grow insensibly to regard himself in some sort a a pillar of the empire whose real worth would be know late on. after a few year of conscientious attendance at many division after newspaper battle innumerable and the publication of interminable correspondence and more hasty oratory than in his calm moment he care to think upon it occur to him a it have occur to many of his fellow in parliament that a tour to india would enable him to sweep a large lyre and address himself to the problem of imperial administration with a firm hand. accept therefore a general invitation extend to him by orde some year before pagett have take ship to karachi and only over night have be receive with joy by the deputy commissioner of amara. they have sit late discuss the change and chance of twenty year recall the name of the dead and weigh the future of the live a be the custom of men meet after interval of action. 
next morning they smoke the after breakfast pipe in the veranda still regard each other curiously pagett in a light grey frock coat and garment much too thin for the time of the year and a puggried sun hat carefully and wonderfully make. orde in a shoot coat rid breech brown cowhide boot with spur and a batter flax helmet. he have ride some mile in the early morning to inspect a doubtful river dam. the men s face differ a much a their attire. orde s wear and wrinkle around the eye and grizzle at the temple be the hard and more square of the two and it be with something like envy that the owner look at the comfortable outline of pagett s blandly receptive countenance the clear skin the untroubled eye and the mobile clean shave lip. 
and this be india. say pagett for the twentieth time star long and intently at the grey feather of the tamarisk. 
one portion of india only. it s very much like this for mile in every direction. by the way now that you have rest a little i wouldn t ask the old question before what d you think of the country. 
ti the most pervasive country that ever yet be see. i acquire several pound of your country come up from karachi. the air be heavy with it and for mile and mile along that distressful eternity of rail there s no horizon to show where air and earth separate. 
yes. it isn t easy to see truly or far in india. but you have a decent passage out hadn t you. 
very good on the whole. your anglo indian may be unsympathetic about one s political view. but he ha reduce ship life to a science. 
the anglo indian be a political orphan and if he s wise he win t be in a hurry to be adopt by your party grandmother. but how be your companion unsympathetic. 
well there be a man call dawlishe a judge somewhere in this country it seem and a capital partner at whist by the way and when i want to talk to him about the progress of india in a political sense. orde hide a grin which might or might not have be sympathetic. the national congress movement and other thing in which a a member of parliament i m of course interest he shift the subject and when i once corner him he look me calmly in the eye and say. that s all tommy rot. come and have a game at bull. you may laugh. but that isn t the way to treat a great and important question. and know who i be. well. i think it rather rude don t you know. and yet dawlishe be a thoroughly good fellow. 
yes. he s a friend of mine and one of the straight men i know. i suppose like many anglo indian he felt it be hopeless to give you any just idea of any indian question without the document before you and in this case the document you want be the country and the people. 
precisely. that be why i come straight to you bring an open mind to bear on thing. i m anxious to know what popular feel in india be really like y know now that it ha waken into political life. the national congress in spite of dawlishe must have cause great excitement among the mass. 
on the contrary nothing could be more tranquil than the state of popular feel. and a to excitement the people would a soon be excite over the rule of three a over the congress. 
excuse me orde but do you think you be a fair judge. isn t the official anglo indian naturally jealous of any external influence that might move the mass and so much oppose to liberal idea truly liberal idea that he can scarcely be expect to regard a popular movement with fairness. 
what do dawlishe say about tommy rot. think a moment old man. you and i be bring up together. teach by the same tutor read the same book live the same life and new language and work among new race. while you more fortunate remain at home. why should i change my mind our mind because i change my sky. why should i and the few hundred englishman in my service become unreasonable prejudice fossil while you and your new friend alone remain bright and open mind. you surely don t fancy civilian be member of a primrose league. 
of course not but the mere position of an english official give him a point of view which cannot but bias his mind on this question. pagett move his knee up and down a little uneasily a he speak. 
that sound plausible enough but like more plausible notion on indian matter i believe it s a mistake. you ll find when you come to consult the unofficial briton that our fault a a class i speak of the civilian now be rather to magnify the progress that ha be make toward liberal institution. it be of english origin such a it be and the stress of our work since the mutiny only thirty year ago ha be in that direction. no i think you will get no fair or more dispassionate view of the congress business than such men a i can give you. but i may a well say at once that those who know most of india from the inside be incline to wonder at the noise our scarcely begin experiment make in england. 
but surely the gather together of congress delegate be of itself a new thing. 
there s nothing new under the sun when europe be a jungle half asia flock to the canonical conference of buddhism. and for century the people have gather at pun hurdwar trimbak and benares in immense number. a great meet what you call a mass meet be really one of the old and most popular of indian institution in the case of the congress meeting the only notable fact be that the priest of the altar be british not buddhist jam or brahmanical and that the whole thing be a british contrivance keep alive by the effort of messrs. hume eardley norton and digby. 
you mean to say then it s not a spontaneous movement. 
what movement be ever spontaneous in any true sense of the word. this seem to be more factitious than usual. you seem to know a great deal about it. try it by the touchstone of subscription a coarse but fairly trustworthy criterion and there be scarcely the color of money in it. the delegate write from england that they be out of pocket for work expense railway fare and stationery the mere pasteboard and scaffold of their show. it be in fact collapse from mere financial inanition. 
but you cannot deny that the people of india who be perhaps too poor to subscribe be mentally and morally move by the agitation pagett insist. 
that be precisely what i do deny. the native side of the movement be the work of a limit class a microscopic minority a lord dufferin describe it when compare with the people proper but still a very interest class see that it be of our own creation. it be compose almost entirely of those of the literary or clerkly caste who have receive an english education. 
surely that s a very important class. it member must be the ordain leader of popular think. 
anywhere else they might be leader but they have no social weight in this topsy turvy land and though they have be employ in clerical work for generation they have no practical knowledge of affair. a ship s clerk be a useful person but he be scarcely the captain. and an orderly room writer however smart he may be be not the colonel. you see the writer class in india ha never till now aspire to anything like command. it wasn t allow to. the indian gentleman for thousand of year past ha resemble victor hugo s noble. 
un vrai sire chatelain laisse ecrire le vilain. sa main digne quand il signe egratigne le velin. 
and the little egralignures he most like to make have be score pretty deeply by the sword. 
but this be childish and medheval nonsense. 
precisely. and from your or rather our point of view the pen be mighty than the sword. in this country it s otherwise. the fault lie in our indian balance not yet adjust to civilize weight and measure. 
well at all event this literary class represent the natural aspiration and wish of the people at large though it may not exactly lead them and in spite of all you say orde i defy you to find a really sound english radical who would not sympathize with those aspiration. 
pagett speak with some warmth and he have scarcely cease when a well appoint dog cart turn into the compound gate and orde rise say. 
here be edward the master of the lodge i neglect so diligently come to talk about account i suppose. 
a the vehicle drive up under the porch pagett also rise say with the train effusion bear of much practice. 
but this be also my friend my old and value friend edward. i m delight to see you. i know you be in india but not exactly where. 
then it isn t account mr. edward say orde cheerily. 
why no sir. i hear mr. pagett be come and a our work be close for the new year i think i would drive over and see him. 
a very happy think. mr. edward you may not know orde be a lead member of our radical club at switebton when i be begin political life and i owe much to his exertion. there s no pleasure like meet an old friend except perhaps make a new one. i suppose mr. edward you stick to the good old cause. 
well you see sir thing be different out here. there s precious little one can find to say against the government which be the main of our talk at home and them that do say thing be not the sort o people a man who respect himself would like to be mix up with. there be no politics in a manner of speak in india. it s all work. 
surely you be mistake my good friend. why i have come all the way from england just to see the work of this great national movement. 
i don t know where you re go to find the nation a move to begin with and then you ll be hard put to it to find what they be move about. it s like this sir say edward who have not quite relish be call my good friend. they haven t get any grievance nothing to hit with don t you see sir. and then there s not much to hit against because the government be more like a kind of general providence direct an old establish state of thing than that at home where there s something new throw down for u to fight about every three month. 
you be probably in your workshop full of english mechanic out of the way of learn what the mass think. 
i don t know so much about that. there be four of u english foreman and between seven and eight hundred native fitter smith carpenter painter and such like. 
and they be full of the congress of course. 
never hear a word of it from year s end to year s end and i speak the talk too. but i want to ask how thing be go on at home old tyler and brown and the rest. 
we will speak of them presently but your account of the indifference of your men surprise me almost a much a your own. i fear you be a backslider from the good old doctrine ed ward. pagett speak a one who mourn the death of a near relative. 
not a bite sir but i should be if i take up with a parcel of baboo pleader and schoolboy a never do a day s work in their life and couldn t if they try. and if you be to poll u english railway men mechanic tradespeople and the like of that all up and down the country from peshawur to calcutta you would find u mostly in a tale together. and yet you know we re the same english you pay some respect to at home at lection time and we have the pull o know something about it. 
this be very curious but you will let me come and see you and perhaps you will kindly show me the railway work and we will talk thing over at leisure. and about all old friend and old time add pagett detect with quick insight a look of disappointment in the mechanic s face. 
nod briefly to orde edward mount his dog cart and drive off. 
it s very disappoint say the member to orde who while his friend discourse with edward have be look over a bundle of sketch draw on grey paper in purple ink bring to him by a chuprassee. 
don t let it trouble you old chap say orde sympathetically. look here a moment here be some sketch by the man who make the carve wood screen you admire so much in the din room and want a copy of and the artist himself be here too. 
a native. say pagett. 
of course be the reply bishen siagh be his name and he ha two brother to help him. when there be an important job to do the three go ato partnership but they spend most of their time and all their money in litigation over an inheritance and i m afraid they be get involve thoroughbred sikh of the old rock obstinate touchy bigoted and cunning but good men for all that. here be bishen singn shall we ask him about the congress. 
but bishen singh who approach with a respectful salaam have never hear of it and he listen with a puzzle face and obviously feign interest to orde s account of it aim and object finally shake his vast white turban with great significance when he learn that it be promote by certain pleader name by orde and by educate native. he begin with labor respect to explain how he be a poor man with no concern in such matter which be all under the control of god but presently break out of urdu into familiar punjabi the mere sound of which have a rustic smack of village smoke reek and plough tail a he denounce the wearer of white coat the juggler with word who filch his field from him the men whose back be never bow in honest work. and pour ironical scorn on the bengali. he and one of his brother have see calcutta and be at work there have bengali carpenter give to them a assistant. 
those carpenter. say bishen singh. black ape be more efficient workmate and a for the bengali babu tchick. the guttural click need no interpretation but orde translate the rest while pagett gaze with in. terest at the wood carver. 
he seem to have a most illiberal prejudice against the bengali say the m. p. 
yes it s very sad that for age outside bengal there should be so bitter a prejudice. pride of race which also mean race hatred be the plague and curse of india and it spread far point with his rid whip to the large map of india on the veranda wall. 
see. i begin with the north say he. there s the afghan and a a highland he despise all the dweller in hindoostan with the exception of the sikh whom he hate a cordially a the sikh hate him. the hindu loathe sikh and afghan and the rajput that s a little low down across this yellow blot of desert ha a strong objection to put it mildly to the maratha who by the way poisonously hate the afghan. let s go north a minute. the sindhi hate everybody i ve mention. very good we ll take le warlike race. the cultivator of northern india domineer over the man in the next province and the behari of the northwest ridicule the bengali. they be all at one on that point. i m give you merely the rough possible outline of the fact of course. 
bishen singh his clean cut nostril still quiver watch the large sweep of the whip a it travel from the frontier through sindh the punjab and rajputana till it rest by the valley of the jumna. 
hate eternal and inextinguishable hate conclude orde flick the lash of the whip across the large map from east to west a he sit down. remember can s advice to lord granville never write or speak of indian thing without look at a map. 
pagett open his eye orde resume. and the race hatred be only a part of it. what s really the matter with bisben singh be class hatred which unfortunately be even more intense and more widely spread. that s one of the little drawback of caste which some of your recent english writer find an impeccable system. 
the wood carver be glad to be recall to the business of his craft and his eye shine a he receive instruction for a carve wooden doorway for pagett which he promise should be splendidly execute and despatch to england in six month. it be an irrelevant detail but in spite of orde s reminder fourteen month elapse before the work be finish. business over bishen singh hang about reluctant to take his leave and at last join his hand and approach orde with bat breath and whisper humbleness say he have a petition to make. orde s face suddenly lose all trace of expression. speak on bishen singh say he and the carver in a whine tone explain that his case against his brother be fix for hear before a native judge and here he drop his voice still low till he be summarily stop by orde who sternly point to the gate with an emphatic begone. 
bishen singh show but little sign of discomposure salaam respectfully to the friend and depart. 
pagett look inquiry. orde with complete recovery of his usual urbanity reply. it s nothing only the old story he want his case to be try by an english judge they all do that but when he begin to hint that the other side be in improper relation with the native judge i have to shut him up. gunga ram the man he want to make insinuation about may not be very bright. but he s a honest a day light on the bench. but that s just what one can t get a native to believe. 
do you really mean to say these people prefer to have their case try by english judge. 
why certainly. 
pagett draw a long breath. i didn t know that before. at this point a phaeton enter the compound and orde rise with confound it there s old rasul ah khan come to pay one of his tiresome duty call. i m afraid we shall never get through our little congress discussion. 
pagett be an almost silent spectator of the grave formality of a visit pay by a punctilious old mahommedan gentleman to an indian official. and be much impress by the distinction of manner and fine appearance of the mohammedan landholder. when the exchange of polite banality come to a pause he express a wish to learn the courtly visitor s opinion of the national congress. 
orde reluctantly interpret and with a smile which even mohammedan politeness could not save from bitter scorn rasul ah khan intimate that he know nothing about it and care still le. it be a kind of talk encourage by the government for some mysterious purpose of it own and for his own part he wonder and hold his peace. 
pagett be far from satisfy with this and wish to have the old gentleman s opinion on the propriety of manage all indian affair on the basis of an elective system. 
orde do his best to explain but it be plain the visitor be bore and bewilder. frankly he didn t think much of committee. they have a municipal committee at lahore and have elect a menial servant an orderly a a member. he have be inform of this on good authority and after that committee have cease to interest him. but all be accord to the rule of government and please god it be all for the best. 
what an old fossil it be. cry pagett a orde return from see his guest to the door. just like some old blue blood hidalgo of spain. what doe he really think of the congress after all and of the elective system. 
hate it all like poison. when you be sure of a majority election be a fine system. but you can scarcely expect the mahommedans the most masterful and powerful minority in the country to contemplate their own extinction with joy. the bad of it be that he and his co religionist who be many and the land proprietor also of hindu race be frighten and put out by this election business and by the importance we have bestow on lawyer pleader writer and the like who have up to now be in abject submission to them. they say little hut after all they be the most important fagot in the great bundle of community and all the glib bunkum in the world would not pay for their estrangement. they have control the land. 
but i be assure that experience of local self government in your municipality ha be most satisfactory and when once the principle be accept in your centre don t you know it be bind to spread and these important ah m people of yours would learn it like the rest. i see no difficulty at all and the smooth lip close with the complacent snap habitual to pagett m. p. the man of cheerful yesterday and confident to morrow. 
orde look at him with a dreary smile. 
the privilege of election ha be most reluctantly withdraw from score of municipality others have have to be summarily suppress and outside the presidency town the actual work do ha be badly perform. this be of le moment perhaps it only send up the local death rate than the fact that the public interest in municipal election never very strong ha wan and be wan in spite of careful nurse on the part of government servant. 
can you explain this lack of interest. say pagett put aside the rest of orde s remark. 
you may find a ward of the key in the fact that only one in every thousand af our population can spell. then they be infinitely more interest in religion and caste question than in any sort of politics. when the business of mere existence be over their mind be occupy by a series of interest pleasure ritual superstition and the like base on century of tradition and usage. you perhaps find it hard to conceive of people absolutely devoid of curiosity to whom the book the daily paper and the print speech be unknown and you would describe their life a blank. that s a profound mistake. you be in another land another century down on the bed rock of society where the family merely and not the community be all important. the average oriental cannot be bring to look beyond his clan. his life too be naore complete and self suffice and le sordid and low thoughted than you might imagine. it be bovine and slow in some respect but it be never empty. you and i be incline to put the cart before the horse and to forget that it be the man that be elemental not the book. 
the corn and the cattle be all my care and the rest be the will of god. 
why should such folk look up from their immemorially appoint round of duty and interest to meddle with the unknown and fuss with vote paper. how would you atop of all your interest care to conduct even one tenth of your life accord to the manner and custom of the papuan let s say. that s what it come to. 
but if they win t take the trouble to vote why do you anticipate that mohammedan proprietor and the rest would be crush by majority of them. 
again pagett disregard the close sentence. 
because though the landholder would not move a finger on any purely political question they could be raise in dangerous excitement by religious hatred. already the first note of this ha be sound by the people who be try to get up an agitation on the cow kill question and every year there be trouble over the mohammedan muharrum procession. 
but who look after the popular right be thus unrepresented. 
the government of her majesty the queen empress of india in which if the congress promoter be to be believe the people have an implicit trust. for the congress circular specially prepare for rustic comprehension say the movement be for the remission of tax the advancement of hindustan and the strengthen of the british government. this paper be head in large letter. 
may the prosperity of the empire of india endure. 
really. say pagett that show some cleverness. but there be thing good worth imitation in our english method of er political statement than this sort of amiable fraud. 
anyhow resume orde you perceive that not a word be say about election and the elective principle and the reticence of the congress promoter here show they be wise in their generation. 
but the elective principle must triumph in the end and the little difficulty you seem to anticipate would give way on the introduction of a well balance scheme capable of indefinite extension. 
but be it possible to devise a scheme which always assume that the people take any interest in it without enormous expense ruinous dislocation of the administation and danger to the public peace can satisfy the aspiration of mr. hume and his follow and yet safeguard the interest of the mahommedans the land and wealthy class the conservative hindu the eurasian parsee sikh rajput native christian domicile european and others who be each important and powerful in their way. 
pagett s attention however be divert to the gate where a group of cultivator stand in apparent hesitation. 
here be the twelve apostle by jove come straight out of raffaele s cartoon say the m. p. with the fresh appreciation of a newcomer. 
orde loth to be interrupt turn impatiently toward the villager and their leader hand his long staff to one of his companion advance to the house. 
it be old jelbo the lumherdar or head man of pind sharkot and a very intelligent man for a villager. 
the jat farmer have remove his shoe and stand smile on the edge of the veranda. his strongly mark feature glow with russet bronze and his bright eye gleam under deeply set brow contract by lifelong exposure to sunshine. his beard and moustache streak with grey sweep from bold cliff of brow and cheek in the large sweep one see draw by michael angelo and strand of long black hair mingle with the irregularly pile wreath and fold of his turban. the drapery of stout blue cotton cloth throw over his broad shoulder and gird round his narrow loin hang from his tall form in broadly sculpture fold and he would have make a superb model for an artist in search of a patriarch. 
orde greet him cordially and after a polite pause the countryman start off with a long story tell with impressive earnestness. orde listen and smile interrupt the speaker at time to argue and reason with him in a tone which pagett could hear be kindly and finally check the flux of word be about to dismiss him when pagett suggest that he should be ask about the national congress. 
but jelloc have never hear of it. he be a poor man and such thing by the favor of his honor do not concern him. 
what s the matter with your big friend that he be so terribly in earnest. ask pagett when he have leave. 
nothing much. he want the blood of the people in the next village who have have smallpox and cattle plague pretty badly and by the help of a wizard a currier and several pig have pass it on to his own village. want to know if they can t be run in for this awful crime. it seem they make a dreadful charivari at the village boundary throw a quantity of spell bear object over the border a buffalo s skull and other thing. then brand a chamur what you would call a currier on his hind part and drive him and a number of pig over into jelbo s village. jelbo say he can bring evidence to prove that the wizard direct these proceeding who be a sansi ha be guilty of theft arson cattle kill perjury and murder but would prefer to have him punish for bewitch them and inflict small pox. 
and how on earth do you answer such a lunatic. 
lunatic i the old fellow be a sane a you or i. and he ha some grind of complaint against those sansis. i ask if he would like a native superintendent of police with some men to make inquiry but he object on the ground the police be rather bad than smallpox and criminal tribe put together. 
criminal tribe er i don t quite understand say paget. 
we have in india many tribe of people who in the slack anti british day become robber in various kind and prey on the people. they be be restrain and reclaim little by little and in time will become useful citizen but they still cherish hereditary tradition of crime and be a difficult lot to deal with. by the way what. about the political right of these folk under your scheme. the country people call them vermin but i sup pose they would be elector with the rest. 
nonsense special provision would be make for them in a well consider electoral scheme and they would doubtless be treat with fit severity say pagett with a magisterial air. 
severity yes but whether it would be fit be doubtful. even those poor devil have right and after all they only practice what they have be teach. 
but criminal orde. 
yes criminal with code and ritual of crime god and godlings of crime and a hundred song and saying in praise of it. puzzle isn t it. 
it s simply dreadful. they ought to be put down at once. be there many of them. 
not more than about sixty thousand in this province for many of the tribe broadly describe a criminal be really vagabond and criminal only on occasion while others be be settle and reclaim. they be of great antiquity a legacy from the past the golden glorious aryan past of max muller birdwood and the rest of your spindrift philosopher. 
an orderly bring a card to orde who take it with a movement of irritation at the interruption and band it to pagett. a large card with a rule border in red ink and in the centre in schoolboy copper plate mr. dma nath. give salaam say the civilian and there enter in haste a slender youth clothe in a closely fit coat of grey homespun tight trouser patent leather shoe and a small black velvet cap. his thin cheek twitch and his eye wander restlessly for the young man be evidently nervous and uncomfortable though strive to assume a free and easy air. 
your honor may perhaps remember me he say in english and orde scan him keenly. 
i know your face somehow. you belong to the shershah district i think when i be in charge there. 
yes sir my father be writer at shershah and your honor give me a prize when i be first in the middle school examination five year ago. since then i have prosecute my study and i be now second year s student in the mission college. 
of course. you be kedar nath s son the boy who say he like geography good than play or sugar cake and i didn t believe you. how be your father get on. 
he be well and he send his salaam but his circumstance be depress and he also be down on his luck. 
you learn english idiom at the mission college it seem. 
yes sir they be the best idiom and my father order me to ask your honor to say a word for him to the present incumbent of your honor s shoe the latchet of which he be not worthy to open and who know not joseph. for thing be different at sher shah now and my father want promotion. 
your father be a good man and i will do what i can for him. 
at this point a telegram be hand to orde who after glance at it say he must leave his young friend whom he introduce to pagett a member of the english house of common who wish to learn about india. 
orde bad scarcely retire with his telegram when pagett begin. 
perhaps you can tell me something of the national congress movement. 
sir it be the great movement of modern time and one in which all educate men like u must join. all our student be for the congress. 
except i suppose mahommedans and the christian. say pagett quick to use his recent instruction. 
these be some mere exception to the universal rule. 
but the people outside the college the work class the agriculturist. your father and mother for instance. 
my mother say the young man with a visible effort to bring himself to pronounce the word ha no idea and my father be not agriculturist nor work class. he be of the kayeth caste. but he have not the advantage of a collegiate education and he doe not know much of the congress. it be a movement for the educate young man connect adjective and noun in a sort of vocal hyphen. 
ah yes say pagett feel he be a little off the rail and what be the benefit you expect to gain by it. 
oh sir everything. england owe it greatness to parliamentary institution and we should at once gain the same high position in scale of nation. sir we wish to have the science the art the manufacture the industrial factory with steam engine and other motive power and public meeting and debate. already we have a debate club in connection with the college and elect a mr. speaker. sir the progress must come. you also be a member of parliament and worship the great lord ripon say the youth breathlessly and his black eye flash a he finish his commaless sentence. 
well say pagett drily it ha not yet occur to me to worship his lordship although i believe he be a very worthy man and i be not sure that england owe quite all the thing you name to the house of common. you see my young friend the growth of a nation like ours be slow subject to many influence and if you have read your history aright sir. i know it all all. norman conquest magna charta runnymede reformation tudor stuart mr. milton and mr. burke and i have read something of mr. herbert spencer and gibbon s decline and fall reynolds mystery of the court and pagett felt like one who have pull the string of a shower bath unawares and hasten to stop the torrent with a question a to what particular grievance of the people of india the attention of an elect assembly should be first direct. but young mr. dma nath be slow to particularize. there be many very many demand consideration. mr. pagett would like to hear of one or two typical example. the repeal of the arm act be at last name and the student learn for the first time that a license be necessary before an englishman could carry a gun in england. then native of india ought to be allow to become volunteer rifleman if they choose and the absolute equality of the oriental with his european fellow subject in civil status should be proclaim on principle and the indian army should be considerably reduce. the student be not however prepare with answer to mr. pagett s mild question on these point and he return to vague generality leave the m. p. so much impress with the crudity of his view that he be glad on orde s return to say good bye to his very interest young friend. 
what do you think of young india. ask orde. 
curious very curious and callow. 
and yet the civilian reply one can scarcely help sympathize with him for his mere youth s sake. the young orator of the oxford union arrive at the same conclusion and show doubtless just the same enthusiasm. if there be any political analogy between india and england if the thousand race of this empire be one if there be any chance even of their learn to speak one language if in short india be a utopia of the debate room and not a real land this kind of talk might be worth listen to but it be all base on false analogy and ignorance of the fact. 
but he be a native and know the fact. 
he be a sort of english schoolboy but marry three year and the father of two weakling and know le than most english schoolboy. you saw all he be and know and such idea a he ha acquire be directly hostile to the most cherish conviction of the vast majority of the people. 
but what doe he mean by say he be a student of a mission college. be he a christian. 
he mean just what he say and he be not a christian nor ever will he be. good people in america scotland and england most of whom would never dream of collegiate education for their own son be pinch themselves to bestow it in pure waste on indian youth. their scheme be an oblique subterranean attack on heathenism. the theory be that with the jam of secular education lead to a university degree the pill of moral or religious instruction may he coax down the heathen gullet. 
but doe it succeed. do they make convert. 
they make no convert for the subtle oriental swallow the jam and reject the pill. but the mere example of the sober righteous and godly life of the principal and professor who be most excellent and devote men must have a certain moral value. yet a lord lansdowne point out the other day the market be dangerously overstock with graduate of our university who look for employment in the administration. an immense number be employ but year by year the college mill grind out increase list of youth foredoom to failure and disappointment and meanwhile trade manufacture and the industrial art be neglect and in fact regard with contempt by our new literary mandarin in posse. 
but our young friend say he want steam engine and factory say pagett. 
yes he would like to direct such concern. he want to begin at the top for manual labor be hold to be discreditable and he would never defile his hand by the apprenticeship which the architect engineer and manufacturer of england cheerfully undergo. and he would be aghast to learn that the lead name of industrial enterprise in england belong a generation or two since or now belong to men who work with their own hand. and though he talk glibly of manufacturer he refuse to see that the indian manufacturer of the future will be the despise workman of the present. it be propose for example a few week ago that a certain municipality in this province should establish an elementary technical school for the son of workman. the stress of the opposition to the plan come from a pleader who owe all he have to a college education bestow on him gratis by government and mission. you would have fancy some fine old crust tory squire of the last generation be speak. these people he say want no education for they learn their trade from their father and to teach a workman s son the element of mathematics and physical science would give him idea above his business. they must be keep in their place and it be idle to imagine that there be any science in wood or iron work. and he carry his point. but the indian workman will rise in the social scale in spite of the new literary caste. 
in england we have scarcely begin to realize that there be an industrial class in this country yet i suppose the example of men like edward for instance must tell say pagett thoughtfully. 
that you shouldn t know much about it be natural enough for there be but few source of information. india in this a in other respect be like a badly keep ledger not write up to date. and men like edward be in reality missionary who by precept and example be teach more lesson than they know. only a few however of their crowd of subordinate seem to care to try to emulate them and aim at individual advancement. the rest drop into the ancient indian caste groove. 
how do you mean. ask he well it be find that the new railway and factory workman the fit the smith the engine driver and the rest be already form separate hereditary caste. you may notice this down at jamalpur in bengal one of the old railway centre. and at other place and in other industry they be follow the same inexorable indian law. 
which mean. query pagett. 
it mean that the root habit of the people be to gather in small self contain self suffice family group with no think or care for any interest but their own a habit which be scarcely compatible with the right acceptation of the elective principle. 
yet you must admit orde that though our young friend be not able to expound the faith that be in him your indian army be too big. 
not nearly big enough for it main purpose. and a a side issue there be certain powerful minority of fight folk whose interest an asiatic government be bind to consider. arm be a much a mean of livelihood a civil employ under government and law. and it would be a heavy strain on british bayonet to hold down sikh jat bilochis rohillas rajput bhils dogras pahtans and gurkbas to abide by the decision of a numerical majority oppose to their interest. leave the numerical majority to itself without the british bayonet a flock of sheep might a reasonably hope to manage a troop of collie. 
this complaint about excessive growth of the army be akin to another contention of the congress party. they protest against the malversation of the whole of the money raise by additional tax a a famine insurance fund to other purpose. you must be aware that this special famine fund ha all be spend on frontier road and defence and strategic railway scheme a a protection against russia. 
but there be never a special famine fund raise by special taxation and put by a in a box. no sane administrator would dream of such a thing. in a time of prosperity a finance minister rejoice in a margin propose to annually apply a million and a half to the construction of railway and canal for the protection of district liable to scarcity and to the reduction of the annual loan for public work. but time be not always prosperous and the finance minister have to choose whether he would bang up the insurance scheme for a year or impose fresh taxation. when a farmer hasn t get the little surplus he hop to have for buy a new wagon and drain a low lie field corner you don t accuse him of malversation if he spend what he ha on the necessary work of the rest of his farm. 
a clatter of hoof be hear and orde look up with vexation but his brow clear a a horseman halt under the porch. 
hellin orde. just look in to ask if you be come to polo on tuesday. we want you badly to help to crumple up the krab bokbar team. 
orde explain that he have to go out into the district and while the visitor complain that though good men wouldn t play duffer be always keen and that his side would probably be beat pagett rise to look at his mount a red lather biloch mare with a curious lyre like incurving of the ear. quite a little thoroughbred in all other respect say the m. p. and orde present mr. reginald burke manager of the siad and sialkote bank to his friend. 
yes she s a good a they make em and she s all the female i posse and spoil in consequence aren t you old girl. say burke pat the mare s glossy neck a she back and plunge. 
mr. pagett say orde ha be ask me about the congress. what be your opinion. burke turn to the m. p. with a frank smile. 
well if it s all the same to you sir i should say damn the congress but then i m no politician but only a business man. 
you find it a tiresome subject. 
yes it s all that and bad than that for this kind of agitation be anything but wholesome for the country. 
how do you mean. 
it would be a long job to explain and sara here win t stand but you know how sensitive capital be and how timid investor be. all this sort of rot be likely to frighten them and we can t afford to frighten them. the passenger aboard an ocean steamer don t feel reassure when the ship s way be stop and they hear the workman s hammer tinker at the engine down below. the old ark s go on all right a she be and only want quiet and room to move. them s my sentiment and those of some other people who have to do with money and business. 
then you be a thick and thin supporter of the government a it be. 
why no. the indian government be much too timid with it money like an old maiden aunt of mine always in a funk about her investment. they don t spend half enough on railway for instance and they be slow in a general way and ought to be make to sit up in all that concern the encouragement of private enterprise and coax out into use the million of capital that lie dormant in the country. 
the mare be dance with impatience and burke be evidently anxious to be off so the men wish him good bye. 
who be your genial friend who condemn both congress and government in a breath. ask pagett with an amuse smile. 
just now he be reggie burke keen on polo than on anything else but if you go to the sind and sialkote bank to morrow you would find mr. reginald burke a very capable man of business know and like by an immense constituency north and south of this. 
do you think he be right about the government s want of enterprise. 
i should hesitate to say. good consult the merchant and chamber of commerce in cawnpore madras bombay and calcutta. but though these body would like a reggie put it to make government sit up it be an elementary consideration in govern a country like india which must be administer for the benefit of the people at large that the counsel of those who resort to it for the sake of make money should be judiciously weigh and not allow to overpower the rest. they be welcome guest here a a matter of course but it ha be find best to restrain their influence. thus the right of plantation laborer factory operative and the like have be protect and the capitalist eager to get on ha not always regard government action with favor. it be quite conceivable that under an elective system the commercial community of the great town might find mean to secure majority on labor question and on financial matter. 
they would act at least with intelligence and consideration. 
intelligence yes. but a to consideration who at the present moment most bitterly resent the tender solicitude of lancashire for the welfare and protection of the indian factory operative. english and native capitalist run cotton mill and factory. 
but be the solicitude of lancashire in this matter entirely disinterested. 
it be no business of mine to say. i merely indicate an example of how a powerful commercial interest might hamper a government intent in the first place on the large interest of humanity. 
orde break off to listen a moment. there s dr. lathrop talk to my wife in the draw room say he. 
surely not. that s a lady s voice and if my ear don t deceive me an american. 
exactly dr. eva mccreery lathrop chief of the new woman s hospital here and a very good fellow forbye. good morning doctor he say a a graceful figure come out on the veranda you seem to be in trouble. i hope mr. orde be able to help you. 
your wife be real kind and good i always come to her when i m in a fix but i fear it s more than comfort i want. 
you work too hard and wear yourself out say orde kindly. let me introduce my friend mr. pagett just fresh from home and anxious to learn his india. you could tell him something of that more important half of which a mere man know so little. 
perhaps i could if i d any heart to do it but i m in trouble i ve lose a case a case that be do well through nothing in the world but inattention on the part of a nurse i have begin to trust. and when i speak only a small piece of my mind she collapse in a whine heap on the floor. it be hopeless. 
the men be silent for the blue eye of the lady doctor be dim. recover herself she look up with a smile half sad half humorous and i be in a whine heap too. but what phase of indian life be you particularly interest in sir. 
mr. pagett intend to study the political aspect of thing and the possibility of bestow electoral institution on the people. 
wouldn t it be a much to the purpose to bestow point lace collar on them. they need many thing more urgently than vote. why it s like give a bread pill for a break leg. 
er i don t quite follow say pagett uneasily. 
well what s the matter with this country be not in the least political but an all round entanglement of physical social and moral evil and corruption all more or le due to the unnatural treatment of woman. you can t gather fig from thistle and so long a the system of infant marriage the prohibition of the remarriage of widow the lifelong imprisonment of wife and mother in a bad than penal confinement and the withhold from them of any kind of education or treatment a rational being continue the country can t advance a step. half of it be morally dead and bad than dead and that s just the half from which we have a right to look for the best impulse. it s right here where the trouble be and not in any political consideration whatsoever. 
but do they marry so early. say pagett vaguely. 
the average age be seven but thousand be marry still early. one result be that girl of twelve and thirteen have to bear the burden of wifehood and motherhood and a might be expect the rate of mortality both for mother and child be terrible. pauperism domestic unhappiness and a low state of health be only a few of the consequence of this. then when a frequently happen the boy husband dy prematurely his widow be condemn to bad than death. she may not re marry must live a seclude and despise life a life so unnatural that she sometimes prefer suicide. more often she go astray. you don t know in england what such word a infant marriage baby wife girl mother and virgin widow mean. but they mean unspeakable horror here. 
well but the advance political party here will surely make it their business to advocate social reform a well a political one say pagett. 
very surely they will do no such thing say the lady doctor emphatically. i wish i could make you understand. why even of the fund devote to the marchioness of dufferin s organization for medical aid to the woman of india it be say in print and in speech that they would be good spend on more college scholarship for men. and in all the advance party talk god forgive them and in all their programme they carefully avoid all such subject. they will talk about the protection of the cow for that s an ancient superstition they can all understand that. but the protection of the woman be a new and dangerous idea. she turn to pagett impulsively. 
you be a member of the english parliament. can you do nothing. the foundation of their life be rotten utterly and bestially rotten. i could tell your wife thing that i couldn t tell you. i know the life the inner life that belong to the native and i know nothing else. and believe me you might a well try to grow golden rod in a mushroom pit a to make anything of a people that be bear and rear a these these thing re. the men talk of their right and privilege. i have see the woman that bear these very men and again may god forgive the men. 
pagett s eye open with a large wonder. dr. lathrop rise tempestuously. 
i must be off to lecture say she and i m sorry that i can t show you my hospital. but you have good believe sir that it s more necessary for india than all the election in creation. 
that s a woman with a mission and no mistake say pagett after a pause. 
yes. she belief in her work and so do i say orde. i ve a notion that in the end it will be find that the most helpful work do for india in this generation be work by lady dufferin in draw attention what work that be by the way even with her husband s great name to back it to the need of woman here. in effect native habit and belief be an organize conspiracy against the law of health and happy life but there be some dawn of hope now. 
how d you account for the general indifference then. 
i suppose it s due in part to their fatalism and their utter indifference to all human suffer. how much do you imagine the great province of the pun jab with over twenty million people and half a score rich town ha contribute to the maintenance of civil dispensary last year. about seven thousand rupee. 
that s seven hundred pound say pagett quickly. 
i wish it be reply orde. but anyway it s an absurdly inadequate sum and show one of the blank side of oriental character. 
pagett be silent for a long time. the question of direct and personal pain do not lie within his research. he prefer to discus the weighty matter of the law and content himself with murmur. they ll do good late on. then with a rush return to his first think. 
but my dear orde if it s merely a class movement of a local and temporary character how d you account for bradlaugh who be at least a man of sense take it up. 
i know nothing of the champion of the new brahmin but what i see in the paper. i suppose there be something tempt in be hail by a large assemblage a the representative of the aspiration of two hundred and fifty million of people. such a man look through all the roar and the wreath and doe not reflect that it be a false perspective which a a matter of fact hide the real complex and manifold india from his gaze. he can scarcely be expect to distinguish between the ambition of a new oligarchy and the real want of the people of whom he know nothing. but it s strange that a profess radical should come to be the choose advocate of a movement which ha for it aim the revival of an ancient tyranny. show how even radicalism can fall into academic groove and miss the essential truth of it own creed. believe me pagett to deal with india you want first hand knowledge and experience. i wish he would come and live here for a couple of year or so. 
be not this rather an ad hominem style of argument. 
can t help it in a case like this. indeed i be not sure you ought not to go further and weigh the whole character and quality and upbringing of the man. you must admit that the monumental complacency with which he trot out his ingenious little constitution for india show a strange want of imagination and the sense of humor. 
no i don t quite admit it say pagett. 
well you know him and i don t but that s how it strike a strange. he turn on his heel and pace the veranda thoughtfully. and after all the burden of the actual daily unromantic toil fall on the shoulder of the men out here and not on his own. he enjoy all the privilege of recommendation without responsibility and we well perhaps when you ve see a little more of india you ll understand. to begin with our death rate s five time high than yours i speak now for the brutal bureaucrat and we work on the refuse of work out city and exhaust civilization among the bone of the dead. 
pagett laugh. that s an epigrammatic way of put it orde. 
be it. let s see say the deputy commissioner of amara stride into the sunshine toward a half naked gardener pot rose. he take the man s hoe and go to a rain scarped bank at the bottom of the garden. 
come here pagett he say and cut at the sun bake soil. after three stroke there roll from under the blade of the hoe the half of a clank skeleton that settle at pagett s foot in an unseemly jumble of bone. the m. p. draw back. 
our house be build on cemetery say orde. there be score of thousand of graf within ten mile. 
pagett be contemplate the skull with the awe fascination of a man who ha but little to do with the dead. india s a very curious place say he after a pause. 
ah. you ll know all about it in three month. come in to lunch say orde. 
